Sentence 1: 1853 Inaugural Address 32

My Countrymen:
Sentence 2: It is a relief to feel that no heart but my own can know the personal regret and bitter sorrow over which I have been borne to a position so suitable for others rather than desirable for myself.
Sentence 3: The circumstances under which I have been called for a limited period to preside over the destinies of the Republic fill me with a profound sense of responsibility, but with nothing like shrinking apprehension.
Sentence 4: I repair to the post assigned me not as to one sought, but in obedience to the unsolicited expression of your will, answerable only for a fearless, faithful, and diligent exercise of my best powers.
Sentence 5: I ought to be, and am, truly grateful for the rare manifestation of the nation's confidence; but this, so far from lightening my obligations, only adds to their weight.
Sentence 6: You have summoned me in my weakness; you must sustain me by your strength.
Sentence 7: When looking for the fulfillment of reasonable requirements, you will not be unmindful of the great changes which have occurred, even within the last quarter of a century, and the consequent augmentation and complexity of duties imposed in the administration both of your home and foreign affairs.
Sentence 8: Whether the elements of inherent force in the Republic have kept pace with its unparalleled progression in territory, population, and wealth has been the subject of earnest thought and discussion on both sides of the ocean.
Sentence 9: Less than sixty-four years ago the Father of his Country made "the" then "recent accession of the important State of North Carolina to the Constitution of the United States" one of the subjects of his special congratulation.
Sentence 10: At that moment, however, when the agitation consequent upon the Revolutionary struggle had hardly subsided, when we were just emerging from the weakness and embarrassments of the Confederation, there was an evident consciousness of vigor equal to the great mission so wisely and bravely fulfilled by our fathers.
Sentence 11: It was not a presumptuous assurance, but a calm faith, springing from a clear view of the sources of power in a government constituted like ours.
Sentence 12: It is no paradox to say that although comparatively weak the new-born nation was intrinsically strong.
Sentence 13: Inconsiderable in population and apparent resources, it was upheld by a broad and intelligent comprehension of rights and an all-pervading purpose to maintain them, stronger than armaments.
Sentence 14: It came from the furnace of the Revolution, tempered to the necessities of the times.
Sentence 15: The thoughts of the men of that day were as practical as their sentiments were patriotic.
Sentence 16: They wasted no portion of their energies upon idle and delusive speculations, but with a firm and fearless step advanced beyond the governmental landmarks which had hitherto circumscribed the limits of human freedom and planted their standard, where it has stood against dangers which have threatened from abroad, and internal agitation, which has at times fearfully menaced at home.
Sentence 17: They proved themselves equal to the solution of the great problem, to understand which their minds had been illuminated by the dawning lights of the Revolution.
Sentence 18: The object sought was not a thing dreamed of; it was a thing realized.
Sentence 19: They had exhibited only the power to achieve, but, what all history affirms to be so much more unusual, the capacity to maintain.
Sentence 20: The oppressed throughout the world from that day to the present have turned their eyes hitherward, not to find those lights extinguished or to fear lest they should wane, but to be constantly cheered by their steady and increasing radiance.
Sentence 21: In this our country has, in my judgment, thus far fulfilled its highest duty to suffering humanity.
Sentence 22: It has spoken and will continue to speak, not only by its words, but by its acts, the language of sympathy, encouragement, and hope to those who earnestly listen to tones which pronounce for the largest rational liberty.
Sentence 23: But after all, the most animating encouragement and potent appeal for freedom will be its own history--its trials and its triumphs.
Sentence 24: Preeminently, the power of our advocacy reposes in our example; but no example, be it remembered, can be powerful for lasting good, whatever apparent advantages may be gained, which is not based upon eternal principles of right and justice.
Sentence 25: Our fathers decided for themselves, both upon the hour to declare and the hour to strike.
Sentence 26: They were their own judges of the circumstances under which it became them to pledge to each other "their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor" for the acquisition of the priceless inheritance transmitted to us.
Sentence 27: The energy with which that great conflict was opened and, under the guidance of a manifest and beneficent Providence the uncomplaining endurance with which it was prosecuted to its consummation were only surpassed by the wisdom and patriotic spirit of concession which characterized all the counsels of the early fathers.
Sentence 28: One of the most impressive evidences of that wisdom is to be found in the fact that the actual working of our system has dispelled a degree of solicitude which at the outset disturbed bold hearts and far-reaching intellects.
Sentence 29: The apprehension of dangers from extended territory, multiplied States, accumulated wealth, and augmented population has proved to be unfounded.
Sentence 30: The stars upon your banner have become nearly threefold their original number; your densely populated possessions skirt the shores of the two great oceans; and yet this vast increase of people and territory has not only shown itself compatible with the harmonious action of the States and Federal Government in their respective constitutional spheres, but has afforded an additional guaranty of the strength and integrity of both.
Sentence 31: With an experience thus suggestive and cheering, the policy of my Administration will not be controlled by any timid forebodings of evil from expansion.
Sentence 32: Indeed, it is not to be disguised that our attitude as a nation and our position on the globe render the acquisition of certain possessions not within our jurisdiction eminently important for our protection, if not in the future essential for the preservation of the rights of commerce and the peace of the world.
Sentence 33: Should they be obtained, it will be through no grasping spirit, but with a view to obvious national interest and security, and in a manner entirely consistent with the strictest observance of national faith.
Sentence 34: We have nothing in our history or position to invite aggression; we have everything to beckon us to the cultivation of relations of peace and amity with all nations.
Sentence 35: Purposes, therefore, at once just and pacific will be significantly marked in the conduct of our foreign affairs.
Sentence 36: I intend that my Administration shall leave no blot upon our fair record, and trust I may safely give the assurance that no act within the legitimate scope of my constitutional control will be tolerated on the part of any portion of our citizens which can not challenge a ready justification before the tribunal of the civilized world.
Sentence 37: An Administration would be unworthy of confidence at home or respect abroad should it cease to be influenced by the conviction that no apparent advantage can be purchased at a price so dear as that of national wrong or dishonor.
Sentence 38: It is not your privilege as a nation to speak of a distant past.
Sentence 39: The striking incidents of your history, replete with instruction and furnishing abundant grounds for hopeful confidence, are comprised in a period comparatively brief.
Sentence 40: But if your past is limited, your future is boundless.
Sentence 41: Its obligations throng the unexplored pathway of advancement, and will be limitless as duration.
Sentence 42: Hence a sound and comprehensive policy should embrace not less the distant future than the urgent present.
Sentence 43: The great objects of our pursuit as a people are best to be attained by peace, and are entirely consistent with the tranquillity and interests of the rest of mankind.
Sentence 44: [See APP Note.
]
Sentence 45: With the neighboring nations upon our continent we should cultivate kindly and fraternal relations.
Sentence 46: We can desire nothing in regard to them so much as to see them consolidate their strength and pursue the paths of prosperity and happiness.
Sentence 47: If in the course of their growth we should open new channels of trade and create additional facilities for friendly intercourse, the benefits realized will be equal and mutual.
Sentence 48: Of the complicated European systems of national polity we have heretofore been independent.
Sentence 49: From their wars, their tumults, and anxieties we have been, happily, almost entirely exempt.
Sentence 50: Whilst these are confined to the nations which gave them existence, and within their legitimate jurisdiction, they can not affect us except as they appeal to our sympathies in the cause of human freedom and universal advancement.
Sentence 51: But the vast interests of commerce are common to all mankind, and the advantages of trade and international intercourse must always present a noble field for the moral influence of a great people.
Sentence 52: With these views firmly and honestly carried out, we have a right to expect, and shall under all circumstances require, prompt reciprocity.
Sentence 53: The rights which belong to us as a nation are not alone to be regarded, but those which pertain to every citizen in his individual capacity, at home and abroad, must be sacredly maintained.
Sentence 54: So long as he can discern every star in its place upon that ensign, without wealth to purchase for him preferment or title to secure for him place, it will be his privilege, and must be his acknowledged right, to stand unabashed even in the presence of princes, with a proud consciousness that he is himself one of a nation of sovereigns and that he can not in legitimate pursuit wander so far from home that the agent whom he shall leave behind in the place which I now occupy will not see that no rude hand of power or tyrannical passion is laid upon him with impunity.
Sentence 55: He must realize that upon every sea and on every soil where our enterprise may rightfully seek the protection of our flag American citizenship is an inviolable panoply for the security of American rights.
Sentence 56: And in this connection it can hardly be necessary to reaffirm a principle which should now be regarded as fundamental.
Sentence 57: The rights, security, and repose of this Confederacy reject the idea of interference or colonization on this side of the ocean by any foreign power beyond present jurisdiction as utterly inadmissible.
Sentence 58: The opportunities of observation furnished by my brief experience as a soldier confirmed in my own mind the opinion, entertained and acted upon by others from the formation of the Government, that the maintenance of large standing armies in our country would be not only dangerous, but unnecessary.
Sentence 59: They also illustrated the importance--I might well say the absolute necessity--of the military science and practical skill furnished in such an eminent degree by the institution which has made your Army what it is, under the discipline and instruction of officers not more distinguished for their solid attainments, gallantry, and devotion to the public service than for unobtrusive bearing and high moral tone.
Sentence 60: The Army as organized must be the nucleus around which in every time of need the strength of your military power, the sure bulwark of your defense--a national militia--may be readily formed into a well-disciplined and efficient organization.
Sentence 61: And the skill and self-devotion of the Navy assure you that you may take the performance of the past as a pledge for the future, and may confidently expect that the flag which has waved its untarnished folds over every sea will still float in undiminished honor.
Sentence 62: But these, like many other subjects, will be appropriately brought at a future time to the attention of the coordinate branches of the Government, to which I shall always look with profound respect and with trustful confidence that they will accord to me the aid and support which I shall so much need and which their experience and wisdom will readily suggest.
Sentence 63: In the administration of domestic affairs you expect a devoted integrity in the public service and an observance of rigid economy in all departments, so marked as never justly to be questioned.
Sentence 64: If this reasonable expectation be not realized, I frankly confess that one of your leading hopes is doomed to disappointment, and that my efforts in a very important particular must result in a humiliating failure.
Sentence 65: Offices can be properly regarded only in the light of aids for the accomplishment of these objects, and as occupancy can confer no prerogative nor importunate desire for preferment any claim, the public interest imperatively demands that they be considered with sole reference to the duties to be performed.
Sentence 66: Good citizens may well claim the protection of good laws and the benign influence of good government, but a claim for office is what the people of a republic should never recognize.
Sentence 67: No reasonable man of any party will expect the Administration to be so regardless of its responsibility and of the obvious elements of success as to retain persons known to be under the influence of political hostility and partisan prejudice in positions which will require not only severe labor, but cordial cooperation.
Sentence 68: Having no implied engagements to ratify, no rewards to bestow, no resentments to remember, and no personal wishes to consult in selections for official station, I shall fulfill this difficult and delicate trust, admitting no motive as worthy either of my character or position which does not contemplate an efficient discharge of duty and the best interests of my country.
Sentence 69: I acknowledge my obligations to the masses of my countrymen, and to them alone.
Sentence 70: Higher objects than personal aggrandizement gave direction and energy to their exertions in the late canvass, and they shall not be disappointed.
Sentence 71: They require at my hands diligence, integrity, and capacity wherever there are duties to be performed.
Sentence 72: Without these qualities in their public servants, more stringent laws for the prevention or punishment of fraud, negligence, and peculation will be vain.
Sentence 73: With them they will be unnecessary.
Sentence 74: But these are not the only points to which you look for vigilant watchfulness.
Sentence 75: The dangers of a concentration of all power in the general government of a confederacy so vast as ours are too obvious to be disregarded.
Sentence 76: You have a right, therefore, to expect your agents in every department to regard strictly the limits imposed upon them by the Constitution of the United States.
Sentence 77: The great scheme of our constitutional liberty rests upon a proper distribution of power between the State and Federal authorities, and experience has shown that the harmony and happiness of our people must depend upon a just discrimination between the separate rights and responsibilities of the States and your common rights and obligations under the General Government; and here, in my opinion, are the considerations which should form the true basis of future concord in regard to the questions which have most seriously disturbed public tranquillity.
Sentence 78: If the Federal Government will confine itself to the exercise of powers clearly granted by the Constitution, it can hardly happen that its action upon any question should endanger the institutions of the States or interfere with their right to manage matters strictly domestic according to the will of their own people.
Sentence 79: In expressing briefly my views upon an important subject rich has recently agitated the nation to almost a fearful degree, I am moved by no other impulse than a most earnest desire for the perpetuation of that Union which has made us what we are, showering upon us blessings and conferring a power and influence which our fathers could hardly have anticipated, even with their most sanguine hopes directed to a far-off future.
Sentence 80: The sentiments I now announce were not unknown before the expression of the voice which called me here.
Sentence 81: My own position upon this subject was clear and unequivocal, upon the record of my words and my acts, and it is only recurred to at this time because silence might perhaps be misconstrued.
Sentence 82: With the Union my best and dearest earthly hopes are entwined.
Sentence 83: Without it what are we individually or collectively?
Sentence 84: What becomes of the noblest field ever opened for the advancement of our race in religion, in government, in the arts, and in all that dignifies and adorns mankind?
Sentence 85: From that radiant constellation which both illumines our own way and points out to struggling nations their course, let but a single star be lost, and, if these be not utter darkness, the luster of the whole is dimmed.
Sentence 86: Do my countrymen need any assurance that such a catastrophe is not to overtake them while I possess the power to stay it?
Sentence 87: It is with me an earnest and vital belief that as the Union has been the source, under Providence, of our prosperity to this time, so it is the surest pledge of a continuance of the blessings we have enjoyed, and which we are sacredly bound to transmit undiminished to our children.
Sentence 88: The field of calm and free discussion in our country is open, and will always be so, but never has been and never can be traversed for good in a spirit of sectionalism and uncharitableness.
Sentence 89: The founders of the Republic dealt with things as they were presented to them, in a spirit of self-sacrificing patriotism, and, as time has proved, with a comprehensive wisdom which it will always be safe for us to consult.
Sentence 90: Every measure tending to strengthen the fraternal feelings of all the members of our Union has had my heartfelt approbation.
Sentence 91: To every theory of society or government, whether the offspring of feverish ambition or of morbid enthusiasm, calculated to dissolve the bonds of law and affection which unite us, I shall interpose a ready and stern resistance.
Sentence 92: I believe that involuntary servitude, as it exists in different States of this Confederacy, is recognized by the Constitution.
Sentence 93: I believe that it stands like any other admitted right, and that the States where it exists are entitled to efficient remedies to enforce the constitutional provisions.
Sentence 94: I hold that the laws of 1850, commonly called the "compromise measures," are strictly constitutional and to be unhesitatingly carried into effect.
Sentence 95: I believe that the constituted authorities of this Republic are bound to regard the rights of the South in this respect as they would view any other legal and constitutional right, and that the laws to enforce them should be respected and obeyed, not with a reluctance encouraged by abstract opinions as to their propriety in a different state of society, but cheerfully and according to the decisions of the tribunal to which their exposition belongs.
Sentence 96: Such have been, and are, my convictions, and upon them I shall act.
Sentence 97: I fervently hope that the question is at rest, and that no sectional or ambitious or fanatical excitement may again threaten the durability of our institutions or obscure the light of our prosperity.
Sentence 98: But let not the foundation of our hope rest upon man's wisdom.
Sentence 99: It will not be sufficient that sectional prejudices find no place in the public deliberations.
Sentence 100: It will not be sufficient that the rash counsels of human passion are rejected.
Sentence 101: It must be felt that there is no national security but in the nation's humble, acknowledged dependence upon God and His overruling providence.
Sentence 102: We have been carried in safety through a perilous crisis.
Sentence 103: Wise counsels, like those which gave us the Constitution, prevailed to uphold it.
Sentence 104: Let the period be remembered as an admonition, and not as an encouragement, in any section of the Union, to make experiments where experiments are fraught with such fearful hazard.
Sentence 105: Let it be impressed upon all hearts that, beautiful as our fabric is, no earthly power or wisdom could ever reunite its broken fragments.
Sentence 106: Standing, as I do, almost within view of the green slopes of Monticello, and, as it were, within reach of the tomb of Washington, with all the cherished memories of the past gathering around me like so many eloquent voices of exhortation from heaven, I can express no better hope for my country than that the kind Providence which smiled upon our fathers may enable their children to preserve the blessings they have inherited.
