Sentence 1: 1861 Inaugural Address 34

Fellow-Citizens of the United States:
Sentence 2: In compliance with a custom as old as the Government itself, I appear before you to address you briefly and to take in your presence the oath prescribed by the Constitution of the United States to be taken by the President "before he enters on the execution of this office.
Sentence 3: "
I do not consider it necessary at present for me to discuss those matters of administration about which there is no special anxiety or excitement.
Sentence 4: Apprehension seems to exist among the people of the Southern States that by the accession of a Republican Administration their property and their peace and personal security are to be endangered.
Sentence 5: There has never been any reasonable cause for such apprehension.
Sentence 6: Indeed, the most ample evidence to the contrary has all the while existed and been open to their inspection.
Sentence 7: It is found in nearly all the published speeches of him who now addresses you.
Sentence 8: I do but quote from one of those speeches when I declare that--
I have no purpose, directly or indirectly, to interfere with the institution of slavery in the States where it exists.
Sentence 9: I believe I have no lawful right to do so, and I have no inclination to do so.
Sentence 10: Those who nominated and elected me did so with full knowledge that I had made this and many similar declarations and had never recanted them; and more than this, they placed in the platform for my acceptance, and as a law to themselves and to me, the clear and emphatic resolution which I now read:
'Resolved', That the maintenance inviolate of the rights of the States, and especially the right of each State to order and control its own domestic institutions according to its own judgment exclusively, is essential to that balance of power on which the perfection and endurance of our political fabric depend; and we denounce the lawless invasion by armed force of the soil of any State or Territory, no matter what pretext, as among the gravest of crimes.
Sentence 11: I now reiterate these sentiments, and in doing
Sentence 12: so I only press upon the public attention the most conclusive evidence of which the case is susceptible that the property, peace, and security of no section are to be in any wise endangered by the now incoming Administration.
Sentence 13: I add, too, that all the protection which, consistently with the Constitution and the laws, can be given will be cheerfully given to all the States when lawfully demanded, for whatever cause--as cheerfully to one section as to another.
Sentence 14: There is much controversy about the delivering up of fugitives from service or labor.
Sentence 15: The clause I now read is as plainly written in the Constitution as any other of its provisions:
No person held to service or labor in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall in consequence of any law or regulation therein be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due.
Sentence 16: It is scarcely questioned that this provision was intended by those who made it for the reclaiming of what we call fugitive slaves; and the intention of the lawgiver is the law.
Sentence 17: All members of Congress swear their support to the whole Constitution--to this provision as much as to any other.
Sentence 18: To the proposition, then, that slaves whose cases come within the terms of this clause "shall be delivered up" their oaths are unanimous.
Sentence 19: Now, if they would make the effort in good temper, could they not with nearly equal unanimity frame and pass a law by means of which to keep good that unanimous oath?
Sentence 20: There is some difference of opinion whether this clause should be enforced by national or by State authority, but surely that difference is not a very material one.
Sentence 21: If the slave is to be surrendered, it can be of but little consequence to him or to others by which authority it is done.
Sentence 22: And should anyone in any case be content that his oath shall go unkept on a merely unsubstantial controversy as to 'how' it shall be kept?
Again:
Sentence 23: In any law upon this subject ought not all the safeguards of liberty known in civilized and humane jurisprudence to be introduced, so that a free man be not in any case surrendered as a slave?
Sentence 24: And might it not be well at the same time to provide by law for the enforcement of that clause in the Constitution which guarantees that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States"?
Sentence 25: I take the official oath to-day with no mental reservations and with no purpose to construe the Constitution or laws by any hypercritical rules; and while I do not choose now to specify particular acts of Congress as proper to be enforced, I do suggest that it will be much safer for all, both in official and private stations, to conform to and abide by all those acts which stand unrepealed than to violate any of them trusting to find impunity in having them held to be unconstitutional.
Sentence 26: It is seventy-two years since the first inauguration of a President under our National Constitution.
Sentence 27: During that period fifteen different and greatly distinguished citizens have in succession administered the executive branch of the Government.
Sentence 28: They have conducted it through many perils, and generally with great success.
Sentence 29: Yet, with all this scope of precedent, I now enter upon the same task for the brief constitutional term of four years under great and peculiar difficulty.
Sentence 30: A disruption of the Federal Union, heretofore only menaced, is now formidably attempted.
Sentence 31: I hold that in contemplation of universal law and of the Constitution the Union of these States is perpetual.
Sentence 32: Perpetuity is implied, if not expressed, in the fundamental law of all national governments.
Sentence 33: It is safe to assert that no government proper ever had a provision in its organic law for its own termination.
Sentence 34: Continue to execute all the express provisions of our National Constitution, and the Union will endure forever, it being impossible to destroy it except by some action not provided for in the instrument itself.
Sentence 35: Again: If the United States be not a government proper, but an association of States in the nature of contract merely, can it, as a contract, be peaceably unmade by less than all the parties who made it?
Sentence 36: One party to a contract may violate it--break it, so to speak--but does it not require all to lawfully rescind it?
Sentence 37: Descending from these general principles, we find the proposition that in legal contemplation the Union is perpetual confirmed by the history of the Union itself.
Sentence 38: The Union is much older than the Constitution.
Sentence 39: It was formed, in fact, by the Articles of Association in 1774.
Sentence 40: It was matured and continued by the Declaration of Independence in 1776.
Sentence 41: It was further matured, and the faith of all the then thirteen States expressly plighted and engaged that it should be perpetual, by the Articles of Confederation in 1778.
Sentence 42: And finally, in 1787, one of the declared objects for ordaining and establishing the Constitution was "to form a more perfect Union.
Sentence 43: "
But if destruction of the Union by one or by a part only of the States be lawfully possible, the Union is 'less' perfect than before the Constitution, having lost the vital element of perpetuity.
Sentence 44: It follows from these views that no State upon its own mere motion can lawfully get out of the Union; that 'resolves' and 'ordinances' to that effect are legally void, and that acts of violence within any State or States against the authority of the United States are insurrectionary or revolutionary, according to circumstances.
Sentence 45: I therefore consider that in view of the Constitution and the laws the Union is unbroken, and to the extent of my ability, I shall take care, as the Constitution itself expressly enjoins upon me, that the laws of the Union be faithfully executed in all the States.
Sentence 46: Doing this I deem to be only a simple duty on my part, and I shall perform it so far as practicable unless my rightful masters, the American people, shall withhold the requisite means or in some authoritative manner direct the contrary.
Sentence 47: I trust this will not be regarded as a menace, but only as the declared purpose of the Union that it 'will' constitutionally defend and maintain itself.
Sentence 48: In doing this there needs to be no bloodshed or violence, and there shall be none unless it be forced upon the national authority.
Sentence 49: The power confided to me will be used to hold, occupy, and possess the property and places belonging to the Government and to collect the duties and imposts; but beyond what may be necessary for these objects, there will be no invasion, no using of force against or among the people anywhere.
Sentence 50: Where hostility to the United States in any interior locality shall be so great and universal as to prevent competent resident citizens from holding the Federal offices, there will be no attempt to force obnoxious strangers among the people for that object.
Sentence 51: While the strict legal right may exist in the Government to enforce the exercise of these offices, the attempt to do so would be so irritating and so nearly impracticable withal that I deem it better to forego for the time the uses of such offices.
Sentence 52: The mails, unless repelled, will continue to be furnished in all parts of the Union.
Sentence 53: So far as possible the people everywhere shall have that sense of perfect security which is most favorable to calm thought and reflection.
Sentence 54: The course here indicated will be followed unless current events and experience shall show a modification or change to be proper, and in every case and exigency my best discretion will be exercised, according to circumstances actually existing and with a view and a hope of a peaceful solution of the national troubles and the restoration of fraternal sympathies and affections.
Sentence 55: That there are persons in one section or another who seek to destroy the Union at all events and are glad of any pretext to do it
Sentence 56: I will neither affirm nor deny; but if there be such, I need address no word to them.
Sentence 57: To those, however, who really love the Union may I not speak?
Sentence 58: Before entering upon so grave a matter as the destruction of our national fabric, with all its benefits, its memories, and its hopes, would it not be wise to ascertain precisely why we do it?
Sentence 59: Will you hazard so desperate a step while there is any possibility that any portion of the ills you fly from have no real existence?
Sentence 60: Will you, while the certain ills you fly to are greater than all the real ones you fly from, will you risk the commission of so fearful a mistake?
All profess to be content in the Union if all constitutional rights can be maintained.
Sentence 61: Is it true, then, that any right plainly written in the Constitution has been denied?
Sentence 62: I think not.
Sentence 63: Happily, the human mind is so constituted that no party can reach to the audacity of doing this.
Sentence 64: Think, if you can, of a single instance in which a plainly written provision of the Constitution has ever been denied.
Sentence 65: If by the mere force of numbers a majority should deprive a minority of any clearly written constitutional right, it might in a moral point of view justify revolution; certainly would if such right were a vital one.
Sentence 66: But such is not our case.
Sentence 67: All the vital rights of minorities and of individuals are so plainly assured to them by affirmations and negations, guaranties and prohibitions, in the Constitution that controversies never arise concerning them.
Sentence 68: But no organic law can ever be framed with a provision specifically applicable to every question which may occur in practical administration.
Sentence 69: No foresight can anticipate nor any document of reasonable length contain express provisions for all possible questions.
Sentence 70: Shall fugitives from labor be surrendered by national or by State authority?
Sentence 71: The Constitution does not expressly say.
Sentence 72: '
Sentence 73: May' Congress prohibit slavery in the Territories?
Sentence 74: The Constitution does not expressly say.
Sentence 75: 'Must' Congress protect slavery in the Territories?
Sentence 76: The Constitution does not expressly say.
Sentence 77: From questions of this class spring all our constitutional controversies, and we divide upon them into majorities and minorities.
Sentence 78: If the minority will not acquiesce, the majority must, or the Government must cease.
Sentence 79: There is no other alternative, for continuing the Government is acquiescence on one side or the other.
Sentence 80: If a minority in such case will secede rather than acquiesce, they make a precedent which in turn will divide and ruin them, for a minority of their own will secede from them whenever a majority refuses to be controlled by such minority.
Sentence 81: For instance, why may not any portion of a new confederacy a year or two hence arbitrarily secede again, precisely as portions of the present Union now claim to secede from it?
Sentence 82: All who cherish disunion sentiments are now being educated to the exact temper of doing this.
Sentence 83: Is there such perfect identity of interests among the States to compose a new union as to produce harmony only and prevent renewed secession?
Sentence 84: Plainly the central idea of secession is the essence of anarchy.
Sentence 85: A majority held in restraint by constitutional checks and limitations, and always changing easily with deliberate changes of popular opinions and sentiments, is the only true sovereign of a free people.
Sentence 86: Whoever rejects it does of necessity fly to anarchy or to despotism.
Sentence 87: Unanimity is impossible.
Sentence 88: The rule of a minority, as a permanent arrangement, is wholly inadmissible; so that, rejecting the majority principle, anarchy or despotism in some form is all that is left.
Sentence 89: I do not forget the position assumed by some that constitutional questions are to be decided by the Supreme Court, nor do I deny that such decisions must be binding in any case upon the parties to a suit as to the object of that suit, while they are also entitled to very high respect and consideration in all parallel cases by all other departments of the Government.
Sentence 90: And while it is obviously possible that such decision may be erroneous in any given case, still the evil effect following it, being limited to that particular case, with the chance that it may be overruled and never become a precedent for other cases, can better be borne than could the evils of a different practice.
Sentence 91: At the same time, the candid citizen must confess that if the policy of the Government upon vital questions affecting the whole people is to be irrevocably fixed by decisions of the Supreme Court, the instant they are made in ordinary litigation between parties in personal actions the people will have ceased to be their own rulers, having to that extent practically resigned their Government into the hands of that eminent tribunal.
Sentence 92: Nor is there in this view any assault upon the court or the judges.
Sentence 93: It is a duty from which they may not shrink to decide cases properly brought before them, and it is no fault of theirs if others seek to turn their decisions to political purposes.
Sentence 94: One section of our country believes slavery is 'right' and ought to be extended, while the other believes it is 'wrong' and ought not to be extended.
Sentence 95: This is the only substantial dispute.
Sentence 96: The fugitive-slave clause of the Constitution and the law for the suppression of the foreign slave trade are each as well enforced, perhaps, as any law can ever be in a community where the moral sense of the people imperfectly supports the law itself.
Sentence 97: The great body of the people abide by the dry legal obligation in both cases, and a few break over in each.
Sentence 98: This, I think, can not be perfectly cured, and it would be worse in both cases 'after' the separation of the sections than before.
Sentence 99: The foreign slave trade, now imperfectly suppressed, would be ultimately revived without restriction in one section, while fugitive slaves, now only partially surrendered, would not be surrendered at all by the other.
Sentence 100: Physically speaking, we can not separate.
Sentence 101: We can not remove our respective sections from each other nor build an impassable wall between them.
Sentence 102: A husband and wife may be divorced and go out of the presence and beyond the reach of each other, but the different parts of our country can not do this.
Sentence 103: They can not but remain face to face, and intercourse, either amicable or hostile, must continue between them.
Sentence 104: Is it possible, then, to make that intercourse more advantageous or more satisfactory 'after' separation than 'before'?
Sentence 105: Can aliens make treaties easier than friends can make laws?
Sentence 106: Can treaties be more faithfully enforced between aliens than laws can among friends?
Sentence 107: Suppose you go to war, you can not fight always; and when, after much loss on both sides and no gain on either, you cease fighting, the identical old questions, as to terms of intercourse, are again upon you.
Sentence 108: This country, with its institutions, belongs to the people who inhabit it.
Sentence 109: Whenever they shall grow weary of the existing Government, they can exercise their 'constitutional' right of amending it or their 'revolutionary' right to dismember or overthrow it.
Sentence 110: I can not be ignorant of the fact that many worthy and patriotic citizens are desirous of having the National Constitution amended.
Sentence 111: While I make no recommendation of amendments, I fully recognize the rightful authority of the people over the whole subject, to be exercised in either of the modes prescribed in the instrument itself; and I should, under existing circumstances, favor rather than oppose a fair opportunity being afforded the people to act upon it.
Sentence 112: I will venture to add that to me the convention mode seems preferable, in that it allows amendments to originate with the people themselves, instead of only permitting them to take or reject propositions originated by others, not especially chosen for the purpose, and which might not be precisely such as they would wish to either accept or refuse.
Sentence 113: I understand a proposed amendment to the Constitution--which amendment, however, I have not seen--has passed Congress, to the effect that the Federal Government shall never interfere with the domestic institutions of the States, including that of persons held to service.
Sentence 114: To avoid misconstruction of what I have said, I depart from my purpose not to speak of particular amendments so far as to say that, holding such a provision to now be implied constitutional law, I have no objection to its being made express and irrevocable.
Sentence 115: The Chief Magistrate derives all his authority from the people, and they have referred none upon him to fix terms for the separation of the States.
Sentence 116: The people themselves can do this if also they choose, but the Executive as such has nothing to do with it.
Sentence 117: His duty is to administer the present Government as it came to his hands and to transmit it unimpaired by him to his successor.
Sentence 118: Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people?
Sentence 119: Is there any better or equal hope in the world?
Sentence 120: In our present differences, is either party without faith of being in the right?
Sentence 121: If the Almighty Ruler of Nations, with His eternal truth and justice, be on your side of the North, or on yours of the South, that truth and that justice will surely prevail by the judgment of this great tribunal of the American people.
Sentence 122: By the frame of the Government under which we live this same people have wisely given their public servants but little power for mischief, and have with equal wisdom provided for the return of that little to their own hands at very short intervals.
Sentence 123: While the people retain their virtue and vigilance no Administration by any extreme of wickedness or folly can very seriously injure the Government in the short space of four years.
Sentence 124: My countrymen, one and all, think calmly and 'well' upon this whole subject.
Sentence 125: Nothing valuable can be lost by taking time.
Sentence 126: If there be an object to 'hurry' any of you in hot haste to a step which you would never take 'deliberately', that object will be frustrated by taking time; but no good object can be frustrated by it.
Sentence 127: Such of you as are now dissatisfied still have the old Constitution unimpaired, and, on the sensitive point, the laws of your own framing under it; while the new Administration will have no immediate power, if it would, to change either.
Sentence 128: If it were admitted that you who are dissatisfied hold the right side in the dispute, there still is no single good reason for precipitate action.
Sentence 129: Intelligence, patriotism, Christianity, and a firm reliance on Him who has never yet forsaken this favored land are still competent to adjust in the best way all our present difficulty.
Sentence 130: In 'your' hands, my dissatisfied fellow-countrymen, and not in 'mine', is the momentous issue of civil war.
Sentence 131: The Government will not assail 'you'.
Sentence 132: You can have no conflict without being yourselves the aggressors.
Sentence 133: 'You' have no oath registered in heaven to destroy the Government, while I shall have the most solemn one to "preserve, protect, and defend it.
Sentence 134: "
I am loath to close.
Sentence 135: We are not enemies, but friends.
Sentence 136: We must not be enemies.
Sentence 137: Though passion may have strained it must not break our bonds of affection.
Sentence 138: The mystic chords of memory, stretching from every battlefield and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone all over this broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the Union, when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature.
