Sentence 1: 1864 Interview With John T Mills

"Mr. President," said Governor Randall, "why can't you seek seclusion, and play hermit for a fortnight?
Sentence 2: It would reinvigorate you."
Sentence 3: "Ah," said the President, "two or three weeks would do me no good.
Sentence 4: I cannot fly from my thoughts--my solicitude for this great country follows me wherever I go.
Sentence 5: I do not think it is personal vanity or ambition, though I am not free from these infirmities, but I cannot but feel that the weal or woe of this great nation will be decided in November.
Sentence 6: There is no program offered by any wing of the Democratic party but that must result in the permanent destruction of the Union."
Sentence 7: "But, Mr. President, General McClellan is in favor of crushing out this rebellion by force.
Sentence 8: He will be the Chicago candidate."
Sentence 9: "Sir, the slightest knowledge of arithmetic will prove to any man that the rebel armies cannot be destroyed by Democratic strategy.
Sentence 10: It would sacrifice all the white men of the North to do it.
Sentence 11: There are now in the service of the United States nearly one hundred and fifty thousand able-bodied colored men, most of them under arms, defending and acquiring Union territory.
Sentence 12: The Democratic strategy demands that these forces be disbanded, and that the masters be conciliated by restoring them to slavery.
Sentence 13: The black men who now assist Union prisoners to escape are to be converted into our enemies, in the vain hope of gaining the good-will of their masters.
Sentence 14: We shall have to fight two nations instead of one.
Sentence 15: "You cannot conciliate the South if you guarantee to them ultimate success; and the experience of the present war proves their success is inevitable if you fling the compulsory labor of millions of black men into their side of the scale.
Sentence 16: Will you give our enemies such military advantages as insure success, and then depend on coaxing, flattery, and concession to get them back into the Union?
Sentence 17: Abandon all the posts now garrisoned by black men, take one hundred and fifty thousand men from our side and put them in the battle-field or corn-field against us, and we would be compelled to abandon the war in three weeks.
Sentence 18: "We have to hold territory in inclement and sickly places; where are the Democrats to do this?
Sentence 19: It was a free fight, and the field was open to the war Democrats to put down this rebellion by fighting against both master and slave, long before the present policy was inaugurated.
Sentence 20: "There have been men base enough to propose to me to return to slavery the black warriors of Port Hudson and Olustee, and thus win the respect of the masters they fought.
Sentence 21: Should I do so, I should deserve to be damned in time and eternity.
Sentence 22: Come what will, I will keep my faith with friend and foe.
Sentence 23: My enemies pretend I am now carrying on this war for the sole purpose of abolition.
Sentence 24: So long as I am President, it shall be carried on for the sole purpose of restoring the Union.
Sentence 25: But no human power can subdue this rebellion without the use of the emancipation policy, and every other policy calculated to weaken the moral and physical forces of the rebellion.
Sentence 26: "Freedom has given us one hundred and fifty thousand men, raised on Southern soil.
Sentence 27: It will give us more yet.
Sentence 28: Just so much it has subtracted from the enemy, and, instead of alienating the South, there are now evidences of a fraternal feeling growing up between our men and the rank and file of the rebel soldiers.
Sentence 29: Let my enemies prove to the country that the destruction of slavery is not necessary to a restoration of the Union.
Sentence 30: I will abide the issue."
