Sentence 1: 1864 Address The 164Th Ohio Regiment

SOLDIERS:--You are about to return to your homes and your friends, after having, as I learn, performed in camp a comparatively short term of duty in this great contest.
Sentence 2: I am greatly obliged to you, and to all who have come forward at the call of their country.
Sentence 3: I wish it might be more generally and universally understood what the country is now engaged in.
Sentence 4: We have, as all will agree, a free government, where every man has a right to be equal with every other man.
Sentence 5: In this great struggle, this form of government and every form of human right is endangered if our enemies succeed.
Sentence 6: There is more involved in this contest than is realized by every one.
Sentence 7: There is involved in this struggle, the question whether your children and my children shall enjoy the privileges we have enjoyed.
Sentence 8: I say this, in order to impress upon you, if you are not already so impressed, that no small matter should divert us from our great purpose.
Sentence 9: There may be some inequalities in the practical application of our system.
Sentence 10: It is fair that each man shall pay taxes in exact proportion to the value of his property; but if we should wait, before collecting a tax, to adjust the taxes upon each man in exact proportion with every other man, we should never collect any tax at all.
Sentence 11: There may be mistakes made sometimes; and things may be done wrong, while the officers of the Government do all they can to prevent mistakes.
Sentence 12: But I beg of you, as citizens of this great Republic, not to let your minds be carried off from the great work we have before us.
Sentence 13: This struggle is too large for you to be diverted from it by any small matter.
Sentence 14: When you return to your homes, rise up to the height of a generation of men worthy of a free government, and we will carry out the great work we have commenced.
Sentence 15: I return to you my sincere thanks, soldiers, for the honor you have done me this afternoon.
