Sentence 1: 1864 Address Sanitary Fair Philadelphia

I suppose that this toast is intended to open the way for me to say something.
Sentence 2: War at the best is terrible, and this of ours in its magnitude and duration is one of the most terrible the world has ever known.
Sentence 3: It has deranged business totally in many places, and perhaps in all.
Sentence 4: It has destroyed property, destroyed life, and ruined homes.
Sentence 5: It has produced a national debt and a degree of taxation unprecedented in the history of this country.
Sentence 6: It has caused mourning among us until the heavens may almost be said to be hung in black.
Sentence 7: And yet it continues.
Sentence 8: It has had accompaniments not before known in the history of the world.
Sentence 9: I mean the Sanitary and Christian Commissions, with their labors for the relief of the soldiers, and the Volunteer Refreshment Saloons, understood better by those who hear me than by myself, and these fairs, first begun at Chicago and next held in Boston, Cincinnati, and other cities.
Sentence 10: The motive and object that lie at the bottom of them are worthy of the most that we can do for the soldier who goes to fight the battles of his country.
Sentence 11: From the fair and tender hand of women is much, very much, done for the soldier, continually reminding him of the care and thought for him at home.
Sentence 12: The knowledge that he is not forgotten is grateful to his heart.
Sentence 13: Another view of these institutions is worthy of thought.
Sentence 14: They are voluntary contributions, giving proof that the national resources are not at all exhausted, and that the national patriotism will sustain us through all.
Sentence 15: It is a pertinent question, When is this war to end?
Sentence 16: I do not wish to name the day when it will end, lest the end should not come at the given time.
Sentence 17: We accepted this war, and did not begin it.
Sentence 18: We accepted it for an object, and when that object is accomplished the war will end, and I hope to God that it will never end until that object is accomplished.
Sentence 19: We are going through with our task, so far as I am concerned, if it takes us three years longer.
Sentence 20: I have not been in the habit of making predictions, but I am almost tempted now to hazard one.
Sentence 21: I will.
Sentence 22: It is, that Grant is this evening in a position, with Meade and Hancock, of Pennsylvania, whence he can never be dislodged by the enemy until Richmond is taken.
Sentence 23: If I shall discover that General Grant may be greatly facilitated in the capture of Richmond by rapidly pouring to him a large number of armed men at the briefest notice, will you go?
Sentence 24: Will you march on with him?
Sentence 25: [
Cries of "Yes, yes."
]
Then I shall call upon you when it is necessary.
