Sentence 1: 1865 The Presidents Last Public Address

We meet this evening not in sorrow, but in gladness of heart.
Sentence 2: The evacuation of Petersburg and Richmond, and the surrender of the principal insurgent army, give hope of a righteous and speedy peace, whose joyous expression cannot be restrained.
Sentence 3: In the midst of this, however; He from whom all blessings flow must not be forgotten.
Sentence 4: A call for a national thanksgiving is being prepared, and will be duly promulgated.
Sentence 5: Nor must those whose harder part give us the cause of rejoicing be overlooked.
Sentence 6: Their honors must not be Parceled out with others.
Sentence 7: I myself was near the front, and had the high pleasure of transmitting much of the good news to you; but no part of the honor for plan or execution is mine.
Sentence 8: To General Grant, his skilful officers and brave men, all belongs.
Sentence 9: The gallant navy stood ready, but was not in reach to take active part.
Sentence 10: By these recent successes the reinauguration of the national authority—reconstruction—which has had a large share of thought from the first, is pressed much more closely upon our attention.
Sentence 11: It is fraught with great difficulty.
Sentence 12: Unlike a case of war between independent nations, there is no authorized organ for us to treat with — no one man has authority to give up the rebellion for any other man.
Sentence 13: We simply must begin with and mold from disorganized and discordant elements.
Sentence 14: Nor is it a small additional embarrassment that we, the loyal people, differ among ourselves as to the mode, manner, and measure of reconstruction.
Sentence 15: As a general rule, I abstain from reading the reports of attacks upon myself, wishing not to be provoked by that to which I cannot properly offer an answer.
Sentence 16: In spite of this precaution, however, it comes to my knowledge that I am much censured for some supposed agency in setting up and seeking to sustain the new State government of Louisiana.
Sentence 17: In this I have done just so much as, and no more than, the public knows.
Sentence 18: In the annual message of December, 1863, and in the accompanying proclamation, I presented a plan of reconstruction, as the phrase goes, which I promised, if adopted by any State, should be acceptable to and sustained by the executive government of the nation.
Sentence 19: I distinctly stated that this was not the only plan which might possibly be acceptable, and I also distinctly protested that the executive claimed no right to say when or whether members should be admitted to seats in Congress from such States.
Sentence 20: This plan was in advance submitted to the then Cabinet, and distinctly approved by every member of it.
Sentence 21: One of them suggested that I should then and in that connection apply the Emancipation Proclamation to the theretofore excepted parts of Virginia and Louisiana; that I should drop the suggestion about apprenticeship for freed people, and that I should omit the protest against my own power in regard to the admission of members to Congress.
Sentence 22: But even he approved every part and parcel of the plan which has since been employed or touched by the action of Louisiana.
Sentence 23: The new constitution of Louisiana, declaring emancipation for the whole State, practically applies the proclamation to the part previously excepted.
Sentence 24: It does not adopt apprenticeship for freed people, and it is silent, as it could not well be otherwise, about the admission of members to Congress.
Sentence 25: So that, as it applies to Louisiana, every member of the Cabinet fully approved the plan.
Sentence 26: The message went to Congress, and I received many commendations of the plan, written and verbal, and not a single objection to it from any professed emancipationist came to my knowledge until after the news reached Washington that the people of Louisiana had begun to move in accordance with it.
Sentence 27: From about July, 1862, I had corresponded with different persons supposed to be interested [in] seeking a reconstruction of a State government for Louisiana.
Sentence 28: When the message of 1863, with the plan before mentioned, reached New Orleans, General Banks wrote me that he was confident that the people, with his military cooperation, would reconstruct substantially on that plan.
Sentence 29: I wrote to him and some of them to try it.
Sentence 30: They tried it, and the result is known.
Sentence 31: Such has been my only agency in getting up the Louisiana government.
Sentence 32: As to sustaining it, my promise is out, as before stated.
Sentence 33: But as bad promises are better broken than kept, I shall treat this as a bad promise, and break it whenever I shall be convinced that keeping it is adverse to the public interest; but I have not yet been so convinced.
Sentence 34: I have been shown a letter on this subject, supposed to be an able one, in which the writer expresses regret that my mind has not seemed to be definitely fixed on the question whether the seceded States, so called, are in the Union or out of it.
Sentence 35: It would perhaps add astonishment to his regret were he to learn that since I have found professed Union men endeavoring to make that question, I have purposely forborne any public expression upon it.
Sentence 36: As appears to me, that question has not been, nor yet is, a practically material one, and that any discussion of it, while it thus remains practically immaterial, could have no effect other than the mischievous one of dividing our friends.
Sentence 37: As yet, whatever it may hereafter become, that question is bad as the basis of a controversy, and good for nothing at all — a merely pernicious abstraction.
Sentence 38: We all agree that the seceded States, so called, are out of their proper practical relation with the Union, and that the sole object of the government, civil and military, in regard to those States is to again get them into that proper practical relation.
Sentence 39: I believe that it is not only possible, but in fact easier, to do this without deciding or even considering whether these States have ever been out of the Union, than with it.
Sentence 40: Finding themselves safely at home, it would be utterly immaterial whether they had ever been abroad.
Sentence 41: Let us all join in doing the acts necessary to restoring the proper practical relations between these States and the Union, and each forever after innocently indulge his own opinion whether in doing the acts he brought the States from without into the Union, or only gave them proper assistance, they never having been out of it.
Sentence 42: The amount of constituency, so to speak, on which the new Louisiana government rests, would be more satisfactory to all if it contained 50,000, or 30,000, or even 20,000, instead of only about 12,000, as it does.
Sentence 43: It is also unsatisfactory to some that the elective franchise is not given to the colored man.
Sentence 44: I would myself prefer that it were now conferred on the very intelligent, and on those who serve our cause as soldiers.
Sentence 45: Still, the question is not whether the Louisiana government, as it stands, is quite all that is desirable.
Sentence 46: The question is, will it be wiser to take it as it is and help to improve it, or to reject and disperse it!
Sentence 47: Can Louisiana be brought into proper practical relation with the Union sooner by sustaining or by discarding her new State government!
Sentence 48: Some twelve thousand voters in the heretofore slave State of Louisiana have sworn allegiance to the Union, assumed to be the rightful political power of the State, held elections, organized a State government, adopted a free-State constitution, giving the benefit of public schools equally to black and white, and empowering the legislature to confer the elective franchise upon the colored man.
Sentence 49: Their legislature has already voted to ratify the constitutional amendment recently passed by Congress, abolishing slavery throughout the nation.
Sentence 50: These 12,000 persons are thus fully committed to the Union and to perpetual freedom in the State —committed to the very things, and nearly all the things, the nation wants — and they ask the nation's recognition and its assistance to make good their committal.
Sentence 51: Now, if we reject and spurn them, we do our utmost to disorganize and disperse them.
Sentence 52: We, in effect, say to the white man: You are worthless or worse; we will neither help you, nor be helped by you.
Sentence 53: To the blacks we say: This cup of liberty which these, your old masters, hold to your lips we will dash from you, and leave you to the chances of gathering the spilled and scattered contents in some vague and undefined when, where, and how.
Sentence 54: If this course, discouraging and paralyzing both white and black, has any tendency to bring Louisiana into proper practical relations with the Union, I have so far been unable to perceive it.
Sentence 55: If, on the contrary, we recognize and sustain the new government of Louisiana, the converse of all this is made true.
Sentence 56: We encourage the hearts and nerve the arms of the 12,000 to adhere to their work, and argue for it, and proselyte for it, and fight for it, and feed it, and grow it, and ripen it to a complete success.
Sentence 57: The colored man, too, in seeing all united for him, is inspired with vigilance, and energy, and daring, to the same end.
Sentence 58: Grant that he desires the elective franchise, will he not attain it sooner by saving the already advanced steps toward it than by running backward over them!
Sentence 59: Concede that the new government of Louisiana is only to what it should be as the egg is to the fowl, we shall sooner have the fowl by hatching the egg than by smashing it.
Sentence 60: Again, if we reject Louisiana we also reject one vote in favor of the proposed amendment to the national Constitution.
Sentence 61: To meet this proposition it has been argued that no more than three-fourths of those States which have not attempted secession are necessary to validly ratify the amendment.
Sentence 62: I do not commit myself against this further than to say that such a ratification would be questionable, and sure to be persistently questioned, while a ratification by three-fourths of all the States would be unquestioned and unquestionable.
Sentence 63: I repeat the question: Can Louisiana be brought into proper practical relation with the Union sooner by sustaining or by discarding her new State government!
Sentence 64: What has been said of Louisiana will apply generally to other States.
Sentence 65: And yet so great peculiarities pertain to each State, and such important and sudden changes occur in the same State, and withal so new and unprecedented is the whole case that no exclusive and inflexible plan can safely be prescribed as to details and collaterals.
Sentence 66: Such exclusive and inflexible plan would surely become a new entanglement.
Sentence 67: Important principles may and must be inflexible.
Sentence 68: In the present situation, as the phrase goes, it may be my duty to make some new announcement to the people of the South.
Sentence 69: I am considering, and shall not fail to act when satisfied that action will be proper.
