Sentence 1: 1869 Inaugural Address 36

Citizens of the United States:
Your suffrages having elected me to the office of President of the United States, I have, in conformity to the Constitution of our country, taken the oath of office prescribed therein.
Sentence 2: I have taken this oath without mental reservation and with the determination to do to the best of my ability all that is required of me.
Sentence 3: The responsibilities of the position I feel, but accept them without fear.
Sentence 4: The office has come to me unsought; I commence its duties untrammeled.
Sentence 5: I bring to it a conscious desire and determination to fill it to the best of my ability to the satisfaction of the people.
Sentence 6: On all leading questions agitating the public mind I will always express my views to Congress and urge them according to my judgment, and when I think it advisable will exercise the constitutional privilege of interposing a veto to defeat measures which I oppose; but all laws will be faithfully executed, whether they meet my approval or not.
Sentence 7: I shall on all subjects have a policy to recommend, but none to enforce against the will of the people.
Sentence 8: Laws are to govern all alike--those opposed as well as those who favor them.
Sentence 9: I know no method to secure the repeal of bad or obnoxious laws so effective as their stringent execution.
Sentence 10: The country having just emerged from a great rebellion, many questions will come before it for settlement in the next four years which preceding Administrations have never had to deal with.
Sentence 11: In meeting these it is desirable that they should be approached calmly, without prejudice, hate, or sectional pride, remembering that the greatest good to the greatest number is the object to be attained.
Sentence 12: This requires security of person, property, and free religious and political opinion in every part of our common country, without regard to local prejudice.
Sentence 13: All laws to secure these ends will receive my best efforts for their enforcement.
Sentence 14: A great debt has been contracted in securing to us and our posterity the Union.
Sentence 15: The payment of this, principal and interest, as well as the return to a specie basis as soon as it can be accomplished without material detriment to the debtor class or to the country at large, must be provided for.
Sentence 16: To protect the national honor, every dollar of Government indebtedness should be paid in gold, unless otherwise expressly stipulated in the contract.
Sentence 17: Let it be understood that no repudiator of one farthing of our public debt will be trusted in public place, and it will go far toward strengthening a credit which ought to be the best in the world, and will ultimately enable us to replace the debt with bonds bearing less interest than we now pay.
Sentence 18: To this should be added a faithful collection of the revenue, a strict accountability to the Treasury for every dollar collected, and the greatest practicable retrenchment in expenditure in every department of Government.
Sentence 19: When we compare the paying capacity of the country now, with the ten States in poverty from the effects of war, but soon to emerge, I trust, into greater prosperity than ever before, with its paying capacity twenty-five years ago, and calculate what it probably will be twenty-five years hence, who can doubt the feasibility of paying every dollar then with more ease than we now pay for useless luxuries?
Sentence 20: Why, it looks as though Providence had bestowed upon us a strong box in the precious metals locked up in the sterile mountains of the far West, and which we are now forging the key to unlock, to meet the very contingency that is now upon us.
Sentence 21: Ultimately it may be necessary to insure the facilities to reach these riches and it may be necessary also that the General Government should give its aid to secure this access; but that should only be when a dollar of obligation to pay secures precisely the same sort of dollar to use now, and not before.
Sentence 22: Whilst the question of specie payments is in abeyance the prudent business man is careful about contracting debts payable in the distant future.
Sentence 23: The nation should follow the same rule.
Sentence 24: A prostrate commerce is to be rebuilt and all industries encouraged.
Sentence 25: The young men of the country--those who from their age must be its rulers twenty-five years hence--have a peculiar interest in maintaining the national honor.
Sentence 26: A moment's reflection as to what will be our commanding influence among the nations of the earth in their day, if they are only true to themselves, should inspire them with national pride.
Sentence 27: All divisions--geographical, political, and religious--can join in this common sentiment.
Sentence 28: How the public debt is to be paid or specie payments resumed is not so important as that a plan should be adopted and acquiesced in.
Sentence 29: A united determination to do is worth more than divided counsels upon the method of doing.
Sentence 30: Legislation upon this subject may not be necessary now, or even advisable, but it will be when the civil law is more fully restored in all parts of the country and trade resumes its wonted channels.
Sentence 31: It will be my endeavor to execute all laws in good faith, to collect all revenues assessed, and to have them properly accounted for and economically disbursed.
Sentence 32: I will to the best of my ability appoint to office those only who will carry out this design.
Sentence 33: In regard to foreign policy, I would deal with nations as equitable law requires individuals to deal with each other, and I would protect the law-abiding citizen, whether of native or foreign birth, wherever his rights are jeopardized or the flag of our country floats.
Sentence 34: I would respect the rights of all nations, demanding equal respect for our own.
Sentence 35: If others depart from this rule in their dealings with us, we may be compelled to follow their precedent.
Sentence 36: The proper treatment of the original occupants of this land--the Indians one deserving of careful study.
Sentence 37: I will favor any course toward them which tends to their civilization and ultimate citizenship.
Sentence 38: The question of suffrage is one which is likely to agitate the public so long as a portion of the citizens of the nation are excluded from its privileges in any State.
Sentence 39: It seems to me very desirable that this question should be settled now, and I entertain the hope and express the desire that it may be by the ratification of the fifteenth article of amendment to the Constitution.
Sentence 40: In conclusion I ask patient forbearance one toward another throughout the land, and a determined effort on the part of every citizen to do his share toward cementing a happy union; and I ask the prayers of the nation to Almighty God in behalf of this consummation.
