Sentence 1: 1902 Remarks Lowell Massachusetts

When I got the train this morning one of the first to greet me was ex Governor Allen, of Porto Rico, your fellow townsman.
Sentence 2: Now, you don't hear much about our government of Porto Rico, because there is nothing sensational in a complete success.
Sentence 3: Under Governor Allen and since under his successor Porto Rico has been governed so well that it is not entitled to any space in the newspapers.
Sentence 4: Now, gentlemen, we have done our full duty by Porto Rico.
Sentence 5: We have done our duty by Cuba.
Sentence 6: But I want to ask the people to act further than under a sense of bare duty, to act in a spirit of generosity such as befits a great republic in dealing with a new and weaker republic which, itself, has started on the career of self-government.
Sentence 7: And I want, furthermore, that our people should be awake to their own interest in the seas and lands south of our country.
Sentence 8: We drove out those who had been oppressing Cuba and we cleaned house for them.
Sentence 9: Not an easy task, for many of those cities had never before been cleaned in their entire history.
Sentence 10: We introduced a school system.
Sentence 11: We made justice in fact as well as in name.
Sentence 12: We stamped out the plague of yellow fever, a plague which was a menace not merely to Cuba, but to our own Southern States, and then we left them independent.
Sentence 13: But from the very necessities of the case we are bound to have intimate relations with them.
Sentence 14: Cuba has got to be in a sense a part of our international political system, and I ask most earnestly that in return we make her part of our economic system by establishing reciprocal trade relations with her.
Sentence 15: And I ask in her interest and in ours.
Sentence 16: There is a great market in Cuba, and I wish to see it controlled in the interest of our own people.
Sentence 17: We did well in Cuba.
Sentence 18: We did well in Porto Rico.
Sentence 19: That was be cause we could count on the services of men like Governor Allen, services which should be both interested and intelligent.
Sentence 20: Mind you, both.
Sentence 21: You have got to have morality first, but if morality has not got common sense with it, the result will be unhappy.
Sentence 22: And now, in dealing with Cuba, in dealing with the isthmus across which we are to build the great inter-ocean canal, we must remember that we can do good for ourselves permanently only if we do good to those with whom we are brought in contact.
Sentence 23: I ask you, then, to see to it that we give Cuba reciprocity with this country, primarily in Cuba's interests but also for our own great benefit.
