Sentence 1: 1902 Remarks Waterville Maine

I passed by your State House in Augusta this morning.
Sentence 2: Your legislature only meets every other year, and only stays in session about two months.
Sentence 3: Quite right.
Sentence 4: We do not need too many laws, too much legislation.
Sentence 5: What we need is stability of laws, fearlessness in applying legislation to new evils, when the evils spring up, but above all common sense and self-restraint in applying these remedies, and the fixed and unchangeable belief that fundamentally each man's salvation rests in his own hands.
Sentence 6: All of us stumble at times.
Sentence 7: There is not a man here who does not at times need a helping hand stretched out toward him.
Sentence 8: Shame upon the man who, when the opportunity to help is given, fails to stretch out the hand.
Sentence 9: Help the man who stumbles.
Sentence 10: Help a brother who slips.
Sentence 11: Set him up on his feet.
Sentence 12: Try to start him along the right road.
Sentence 13: But if he lies down, make up your mind you cannot carry him.
Sentence 14: If he won't try to walk himself he is not worth carrying.
Sentence 15: That is so among your neighbors; that is so in your families.
Sentence 16: Every father of a large family—and being an old-fashioned man, I believe in large families—knows that if he is to do well by his children they must try to do well by themselves.
Sentence 17: Now, haven't you in your own experience known men—and I am sorry to say even more often, women—who think that they are doing a favor to their children when they shield them from every effort?
Sentence 18: When they let the girls sit at ease and read while the mother does all the housework?
Sentence 19: Don't you know cases like that?
Sentence 20: I do, yes; when a boy will be brought up to be very ornamental and not particularly useful?
Sentence 21: Don't you know that, too?
Sentence 22: Exactly.
Sentence 23: Now, those are not good fathers and mothers.
Sentence 24: They are foolish fathers and mothers.
Sentence 25: They are not being kind; they are simply being silly.
Sentence 26: That's all.
Sentence 27: It is not any good that you do your son or your daughter by teaching him or her how to shirk difficulties; you do him or her good, only if you teach him or her to face difficulties and by facing them to overcome them.
Sentence 28: Isn't that true?
Sentence 29: Don't you know it to be so in your own families?
Sentence 30: Well, it is just so on a larger scale in the state.
Sentence 31: The only way by which, in the long run, any man can be helped is by teaching him to help himself.
Sentence 32: Of course, there may come sudden cataclysms where you have got to extend help with a free hand, thinking only of the immediate need, not of the ultimate results.
Sentence 33: Of course, new conditions will arise here and there, especially in the complex industrial life of great cities, where you must shape the legislation of the country on a new basis to meet the new conditions.
Sentence 34: But fundamentally, it is true that the only permanent betterment in the condition of any nation is to raise the standards of individual citizenship throughout that nation.
Sentence 35: My fellow-citizens, I wish to thank you, to thank all the people of Maine for the way in which I have been greeted.
Sentence 36: I feel in a certain sense a right to the greeting, for at least I am trying to put into practice the principles in which you believe.
Sentence 37: I feel that the art of successful government in our country is the art of applying practically the every day principles of decency, morality and common sense, which must be applied by the average citizen if he is to be a good husband, a good father, a good neighbor and a good citizen.
Sentence 38: There is not any wonderful brilliancy or genius in it.
Sentence 39: What we need is the application of the everyday principles that a man needs if he is to make his business a success, if he is to do his duty in his own family and to his neighbor.
Sentence 40: Now, up here in Maine you are so fortunate as to have a State which, on the whole, represents as well as any other in the Union (better than all, save a very few others, in our Union) the conditions of life, the ways of looking at life, out of which such a republican, such a democratic government as ours springs.
Sentence 41: You believe practically that each man must work out his fate for himself.
Sentence 42: And yet that the state must be called on to try to give each man a fair show in life.
