Sentence 1: 1903 Remarks Lincoln Nebraska 0

Mr. Chairman, and you, my fellow Americans, my fellow citizens:
Sentence 2: It is indeed a pleasure for me to come to the state of Nebraska and to its capital today, and in thanking all of you for your greeting, the rest I am sure will not mind my saying a special word of thanks to the men to whom we owe it that there is a United States or a President of it today.
Sentence 3: I come here now at the outset of the twentieth century, because from 1861 to 1865 you had it in you to be willing to give up life itself for the sake of the ideal of the government and of freedom.
Sentence 4: And it was natural enough that when in 1898 the little war came Nebraska should have sent her sons to the Philippines to show that the spirit that had burned in their sires' hearts was not extinguished yet.
Sentence 5: I greet you.
Sentence 6: Let me say a word also to the representatives of the university.
Sentence 7: I am glad to see you.
Sentence 8: My creed is a fairly simple one.
Sentence 9: I believe in play and I believe in work.
Sentence 10: Play hard while you play and when you work don't play, but work hard.
Sentence 11: I also wish to say a word of special greeting to two other bodies.
Sentence 12: First to the National Guard.
Sentence 13: I wish to congratulate your city upon the admirable arrangements, and to say how I appreciate the Guard having turned out and the way in which they carried themselves, the ease with which they made it possible for this great audience to be reached.
Sentence 14: And now especially a word to the school children.
Sentence 15: Coming through the state of Nebraska today I have rejoiced in your fertile soil; I rejoice in the crops you raise, and after all the best product of any soil is the product of the man and the woman.
Sentence 16: I was mighty glad to see your children.
Sentence 17: They seemed to be all right in quality and in quantity.
Sentence 18: I think you have a mighty good stock.
Sentence 19: I want to see it go on.
Sentence 20: And now, my friends and fellow citizens, I have but a word to say to you.
Sentence 21: I wish to speak one word only upon government—good government.
Sentence 22: There is nothing peculiar or wonderful in getting a good government any more than there is anything peculiar or wonderful in a man's making a success in private life.
Sentence 23: The same qualities that make a man a good man in his family, a good husband and father, a good neighbor, a man with whom you like to work or to deal, those same qualities make him a good citizen, a good man in the state when applied in his relations to the state.
Sentence 24: We need honesty, we need courage, we need common sense.
Sentence 25: We need to show in civic life the same spirit that you showed in the Civil War in battle; what you cared to know about as to the man on your right hand or your left; was not the way in which he worshiped his Maker; not his social standing or wealth; you cared nothing whether he were farmer or mechanic, lawyer or business man, bricklayer or banker; what you wanted to know was whether he would do his duty like a man.
Sentence 26: This is what you cared for—whether he would stay "put" when the time came.
Sentence 27: It is the same thing in civil life now.
Sentence 28: Any man that preaches anything that argues contrary, because he is less well off or less distinguished, shows a feeling that is a contemptible feeling for an American freeman to have.
Sentence 29: We can go, in this Republic, only on the theory of trying each man on his worth as a man, or guaranteeing him his rights and seeing that he does no wrong; that he wrongs no one and that he is protected in return in so far as he does right.
Sentence 30: The pride of our land is counted on because we enjoy liberty under the law, and it will go on prosperously just so long as capitalists and wage workers, the men of the farms and the men of the towns are all alike pursuing that spirit.
Sentence 31: If we allow envy, hatred, or anger to rule us; if we permit wrong to be done by any man against capitalists and wage workers, the men of the farms and the men of fail [sic in text] to protect him in them, by just so much are we coming short of the standard set for us by the men who in 1776 founded this nation and by the men who in the years from '61 to '65 preserved it.
Sentence 32: Now anything that I say of that kind must necessarily be general in its nature; each community has its own special conditions to which the rule applies, but the principle of which I have spoken must be applied in each individual case according to that case's nature, under penalty of seeing partial failure at least.
Sentence 33: The principles of order, of law, and of liberty under and through the law, need to be actuated by a spirit of genuine brotherhood, the spirit which regards one's neighbors' interests as well as one's own, and which thinks it a shame to impugn the rights of anyone else.
Sentence 34: More than that, something can be done by the law; something can be done by the honest and fearless and wise administration of the law.
Sentence 35: But after all, in the last resort, we must depend upon the high average of our individual citizenship for success.
Sentence 36: Uniform in battle is a good thing; a good rifle is a better thing.
Sentence 37: But if you have got a poor man with a good rifle, a good man with a poor rifle will beat him with a club.
Sentence 38: You have got to have the proper spirit in the man behind the law, in the average citizen, to get the proper results from the law.
Sentence 39: It is upon the average of our citizenship that we have to rely.
Sentence 40: More than that.
Sentence 41: We can do a good deal by combination among ourselves.
Sentence 42: Combination for business purposes, combination to help those who are wage-workers, always provided that each combination acts underhand in accordance with the law; always in accordance with law, can help us to help one another.
Sentence 43: There is not a man of us here who does not at times stumble, at times slip, at times need a helping hand.
Sentence 44: Shame to the brother who will not then extend the helping hand.
Sentence 45: Help any man up, help him to try to walk, but if he lies down you cannot carry him.
Sentence 46: If he lies down and won't walk and you try to carry him it does not do you or him any good.
Sentence 47: You can help a man in that way by helping him to help himself.
Sentence 48: That is the only way in which in the end you can do a man real good.
Sentence 49: Men and women of Nebraska, I congratulate you upon what I see in your great and beautiful state.
Sentence 50: I believe that whatever may be the temporary ebb and flow, on the whole, Nebraska will in the future share, even to war, her expected proportion of the prosperity that is sure to come in the end to a nation such as ours, composed of such people with a continent back of it.
Sentence 51: I believe in it because I believe in the character of the men and women who make up the state here.
Sentence 52: I believe in it as I believe in the future of the United States, because I believe in the average citizenship of the United States.
Sentence 53: It is a great thing to have the soil that you have got in this state, to have the crops that you have got.
Sentence 54: You need that as the foundation upon which to build, but the building itself depends upon the use that you make of the foundation.
Sentence 55: I congratulate you upon your households, upon your churches and upon what is done in your households.
Sentence 56: I congratulate you most of all because you are doing your best to keep up the average of citizenship here.
Sentence 57: But in making good citizens you need first of all honesty in its widest sense; the spirit of fair dealing as between man and man.
Sentence 58: The spirit that makes a man jealous of the rights of his neighbors as he is jealous of his own.
Sentence 59: Now you of the great war.
Sentence 60: You won because each of you had it in you to care for something more than for himself; a care for the honor of the regiment, the honor of the flag and the honor of the nation more than even for his own life.
Sentence 61: So we will get good citizen ship only on condition that we have in us the power of adherence to the lofty idea and that is not enough.
Sentence 62: In the Civil War it didn't make any difference how patriotic a man was if he ran away.
Sentence 63: In addition to the love of country you had to have the courage that made you put that love of country into action.
Sentence 64: And so now I don't care how good a man, how virtuous, if he stays at home and does nothing, it don't count.
Sentence 65: The man that counts is the man, the honorable man, who has got the stuff in him to go out into the world, into the hurly burly of actual life and hold his own as a man among men.
Sentence 66: That is the man that counts.
Sentence 67: You have got to have energy and courage, the qualities of virile manhood in addition to the qualities of honesty and decency.
Sentence 68: But that is not enough.
Sentence 69: I don't care how honest a man is and how brave he is, if he is a natural born fool you can do little with him.
Sentence 70: In addition to courage, in addition to honesty, you must have the saving grace of common sense.
Sentence 71: Shame on the man whose heart is hard.
Sentence 72: I want softness of heart, but I don't want it to be extended to the softness of the head.
Sentence 73: Citizens, we don't need brilliancy or genius in citizenship.
Sentence 74: We need most of all the capacity which makes a man do well the ordinary things of life; we need the development of the ordinary qualities which we feel the average citizen should possess; the qualities that make a man and that make a good man; the qualities that make a man good in his family, good in his relations with his neighbors and a square and brave man in dealing with the state.
Sentence 75: The qualities that stand above physical strength, that stand above intellect, the qualities that go to make up what we call character.
Sentence 76: And in their essence those qualities can be divided into three, the quality of honesty, the quality of courage, and the quality of common sense.
Sentence 77: I thank you for coming here to greet me.
Sentence 78: It is a pleasure to see you here.
Sentence 79: I believe in you with all my heart.
Sentence 80: I believe in your future.
Sentence 81: I know you.
Sentence 82: I welcome you here today
Sentence 83: and I bid you Godspeed for the future.
