Sentence 1: 1905 Remarks Frederick Oklahoma

Fellow citizens:
The next time I come to Oklahoma I trust I will come to a State, and it won't be my fault if this is not so.
Sentence 2: I greet the veterans of the Civil War who came here today to greet the President, because we are one people and one country, and not to be divided forever.
Sentence 3: I am glad to see Qunah Parker, who has done so well with his farm.
Sentence 4: One thing of which I am proud is that I have tried to give a fair deal to every man.
Sentence 5: Give the red man the same chance as the white.
Sentence 6: This country is founded on the doctrine of giving each man a fair show to see what there is in him.
Sentence 7: I have traveled four days in Texas, and I am now in what will soon be a great State of the Union.
Sentence 8: There is nowhere I feel more at home than in a town like this.
Sentence 9: I have confidence in the character of the men and women who have come here.
Sentence 10: Ever since the Revolution we have been making new States.
Sentence 11: Now we are about a: the close of this period.
Sentence 12: I do not feel that I have to explain my policies to the Oklahoma people.
Sentence 13: You like to have the American people play a big part in the world, and play that part well.
Sentence 14: I know the Western people are with us when I say we must build the Panama Canal.
Sentence 15: You do not think I should be quiet while the American people are being held up.
Sentence 16: We want our rights, not as a favor, but as a right.
Sentence 17: I have had a middling busy three and a half years.
Sentence 18: I have liked my job.
Sentence 19: I enjoyed it and was thankful to the people for telling me to go on with it.
Sentence 20: Now, I want four days' play.
Sentence 21: I hear you have plenty of jack rabbits and coyotes here.
Sentence 22: I like my citizens, but don't like them on a coyote hunt.
Sentence 23: Give me a fair show to have as much fun as even a President is entitled to have.
Sentence 24: Good-by, and good luck.
