Sentence 1: 1913 Inaugural Address 47

There has been a change of government.
Sentence 2: It began two years ago, when the House of Representatives became Democratic by a decisive majority.
Sentence 3: It has now been completed.
Sentence 4: The Senate about to assemble will also be Democratic.
Sentence 5: The offices of President and Vice-President have been put into the hands of Democrats.
Sentence 6: What does the change mean?
Sentence 7: That is the question that is uppermost in our minds to-day.
Sentence 8: That is the question I am going to try to answer, in order, if I may, to interpret the occasion.
Sentence 9: It means much more than the mere success of a party.
Sentence 10: The success of a party means little except when the Nation is using that party for a large and definite purpose.
Sentence 11: No one can mistake the purpose for which the Nation now seeks to use the Democratic Party.
Sentence 12: It seeks to use it to interpret a change in its own plans and point of view.
Sentence 13: Some old things with which we had grown familiar, and which had begun to creep into the very habit of our thought and of our lives, have altered their aspect as we have latterly looked critically upon them, with fresh, awakened eyes; have dropped their disguises and shown themselves alien and sinister.
Sentence 14: Some new things, as we look frankly upon them, willing to comprehend their real character, have come to assume the aspect of things long believed in and familiar, stuff of our own convictions.
Sentence 15: We have been refreshed by a new insight into our own life.
Sentence 16: We see that in many things that life is very great.
Sentence 17: It is incomparably great in its material aspects, in its body of wealth, in the diversity and sweep of its energy, in the industries which have been conceived and built up by the genius of individual men and the limitless enterprise of groups of men.
Sentence 18: It is great, also, very great, in its moral force.
Sentence 19: Nowhere else in the world have noble men and women exhibited in more striking forms the beauty and the energy of sympathy and helpfulness and counsel in their efforts to rectify wrong, alleviate suffering, and set the weak in the way of strength and hope.
Sentence 20: We have built up, moreover, a great system of government, which has stood through a long age as in many respects a model for those who seek to set liberty upon foundations that will endure against fortuitous change, against storm and accident.
Sentence 21: Our life contains every great thing, and contains it in rich abundance.
Sentence 22: But the evil has come with the good, and much fine gold has been corroded.
Sentence 23: With riches has come inexcusable waste.
Sentence 24: We have squandered a great part of what we might have used, and have not stopped to conserve the exceeding bounty of nature, without which our genius for enterprise would have been worthless and impotent, scorning to be careful, shamefully prodigal as well as admirably efficient.
Sentence 25: We have been proud of our industrial achievements, but we have not hitherto stopped thoughtfully enough to count the human cost, the cost of lives snuffed out, of energies overtaxed and broken, the fearful physical and spiritual cost to the men and women and children upon whom the dead weight and burden of it all has fallen pitilessly the years through.
Sentence 26: The groans and agony of it all had not yet reached our ears, the solemn, moving undertone of our life, coming up out of the mines and factories, and out of every home where the struggle had its intimate and familiar seat.
Sentence 27: With the great Government went many deep secret things which we too long delayed to look into and scrutinize with candid, fearless eyes.
Sentence 28: The great Government we loved has too often been made use of for private and selfish purposes, and those who used it had forgotten the people.
Sentence 29: At last a vision has been vouchsafed us of our life as a whole.
Sentence 30: We see the bad with the good, the debased and decadent with the sound and vital.
Sentence 31: With this vision we approach new affairs.
Sentence 32: Our duty is to cleanse, to reconsider, to restore, to correct the evil without impairing the good, to purify and humanize every process of our common life without weakening or sentimentalizing it.
Sentence 33: There has been something crude and heartless and unfeeling in our haste to succeed and be great.
Sentence 34: Our thought has been "Let every man look out for himself, let every generation look out for itself," while we reared giant machinery which made it impossible that any but those who stood at the levers of control should have a chance to look out for themselves.
Sentence 35: We had not forgotten our morals.
Sentence 36: We remembered well enough that we had set up a policy which was meant to serve the humblest as well as the most powerful, with an eye single to the standards of justice and fair play, and remembered it with pride.
Sentence 37: But we were very heedless and in a hurry to be great.
Sentence 38: We have come now to the sober second thought.
Sentence 39: The scales of heedlessness have fallen from our eyes.
Sentence 40: We have made up our minds to square every process of our national life again with the standards we so proudly set up at the beginning and have always carried at our hearts.
Sentence 41: Our work is a work of restoration.
Sentence 42: We have itemized with some degree of particularity the things that ought to be altered and here are some of the chief items: A tariff which cuts us off from our proper part in the commerce of the world, violates the just principles of taxation, and makes the Government a facile instrument in the hand of private interests; a banking and currency system based upon the necessity of the Government to sell its bonds fifty years ago and perfectly adapted to concentrating cash and restricting credits; an industrial system which, take it on all its sides, financial as well as administrative, holds capital in leading strings, restricts the liberties and limits the opportunities of labor, and exploits without renewing or conserving the natural resources of the country; a body of agricultural activities never yet given the efficiency of great business undertakings or served as it should be through the instrumentality of science taken directly to the farm, or afforded the facilities of credit best suited to its practical needs; watercourses undeveloped, waste places unreclaimed, forests untended, fast disappearing without plan or prospect of renewal, unregarded waste heaps at every mine.
Sentence 43: We have studied as perhaps no other nation has the most effective means of production, but we have not studied cost or economy as we should either as organizers of industry, as statesmen, or as individuals.
Nor have we studied and perfected the means by which government may be put at the service of humanity, in safeguarding the health of the Nation, the health of its men and its women and its children, as well as their rights in the struggle for existence.
Sentence 44: This is no sentimental duty.
Sentence 45: The firm basis of government is justice, not pity.
Sentence 46: These are matters of justice.
Sentence 47: There can be no equality or opportunity, the first essential of justice in the body politic, if men and women and children be not shielded in their lives, their very vitality, from the consequences of great industrial and social processes which they can not alter, control, or singly cope with.
Sentence 48: Society must see to it that it does not itself crush or weaken or damage its own constituent parts.
Sentence 49: The first duty of law is to keep sound the society it serves.
Sentence 50: Sanitary laws, pure food laws, and laws determining conditions of labor which individuals are powerless to determine for themselves are intimate parts of the very business of justice and legal efficiency.
Sentence 51: These are some of the things we ought to do, and not leave the others undone, the old-fashioned, never-to-be-neglected, fundamental safeguarding of property and of individual right.
Sentence 52: This is the high enterprise of the new day: To lift everything that concerns our life as a Nation to the light that shines from the hearthfire of every man's conscience and vision of the right.
Sentence 53: It is inconceivable that we should do this as partisans; it is inconceivable we should do it in ignorance of the facts as they are or in blind haste.
Sentence 54: We shall restore, not destroy.
Sentence 55: We shall deal with our economic system as it is and as it may be modified, not as it might be if we had a clean sheet of paper to write upon; and step by step we shall make it what it should be, in the spirit of those who question their own wisdom and seek counsel and knowledge, not shallow self-satisfaction or the excitement of excursions whither they can not tell.
Sentence 56: Justice, and only justice, shall always be our motto.
Sentence 57: And yet it will be no cool process of mere science.
Sentence 58: The Nation has been deeply stirred, stirred by a solemn passion, stirred by the knowledge of wrong, of ideals lost, of government too often debauched and made an instrument of evil.
Sentence 59: The feelings with which we face this new age of right and opportunity sweep across our heartstrings like some air out of God's own presence, where justice and mercy are reconciled and the judge and the brother are one.
Sentence 60: We know our task to be no mere task of politics but a task which shall search us through and through, whether we be able to understand our time and the need of our people, whether we be indeed their spokesmen and interpreters, whether we have the pure heart to comprehend and the rectified will to choose our high course of action.
Sentence 61: This is not a day of triumph; it is a day of dedication.
Sentence 62: Here muster, not the forces of party, but the forces of humanity.
Sentence 63: Men's hearts wait upon us; men's lives hang in the balance; men's hopes call upon us to say what we will do.
Sentence 64: Who shall live up to the great trust?
Sentence 65: Who dares fail to try?
Sentence 66: I summon all honest men, all patriotic, all forward-looking men, to my side.
Sentence 67: God helping me, I will not fail them, if they will but counsel and sustain me!
