Sentence 1: 1914 Annapolis Commencement Address

Mr. Superintendent, Young Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen:
During the greater part of my life I have been associated with young men, and on occasions it seems to me without number have faced bodies of youngsters going out to take part in the activities of the world, but I have a consciousness of a different significance in this occasion from that which I have felt on other similar occasions.
Sentence 2: When I have faced the graduating classes at universities I have felt that I was facing a great conjecture.
Sentence 3: They were going out into all sorts of pursuits and with every degree of preparation for the particular thing they were expecting to do; some without any preparation at all, for they did not know what they expected to do.
Sentence 4: But in facing you I am facing men who are trained for a special thing.
Sentence 5: You know what you are going to do, and you are under the eye of the whole Nation in doing it.
Sentence 6: For you, gentlemen, are to be part of the power of the Government of the United States.
Sentence 7: There is a very deep and solemn significance in that fact, and I am sure that every one of you feels it.
Sentence 8: The moral is perfectly obvious.
Sentence 9: Be ready and fit for anything that you have to do.
Sentence 10: And keep ready and fit.
Sentence 11: Do not grow slack.
Sentence 12: Do not suppose that your education is over because you have received your diplomas from the academy.
Sentence 13: Your education has just begun.
Sentence 14: Moreover, you are to have a very peculiar privilege which not many of your predecessors have had.
Sentence 15: You are yourselves going to become teachers.
Sentence 16: You are going to teach those 50,000 fellow-countrymen of yours who are the enlisted men of the Navy.
Sentence 17: You are going to make them fitter to obey your orders and to serve the country.
Sentence 18: You are going to make them fitter to see what the orders mean in their outlook upon life and upon the service; and that is a great privilege, for out of you is going the energy and intelligence which are going to quicken the whole body of the United States Navy.
Sentence 19: I congratulate you upon that prospect, but I want to ask you not to get the professional point of view.
Sentence 20: I would ask it of you if you were lawyers; I would ask it of you if you were merchants; I would ask it of you whatever you expected to be.
Sentence 21: Do not get the professional point of view.
Sentence 22: There is nothing narrower or more unserviceable than the professional point of view, to have the attitude toward life that it centers in your profession.
Sentence 23: It does not.
Sentence 24: Your profession is only one of the many activities which are meant to keep the world straight, and to keep the energy in its blood and in its muscle.
Sentence 25: We are all of us in this world, as I understand it, to set forward the affairs of the whole world, though we play a special part in that great function.
Sentence 26: The Navy goes all over the world, and I think it is to be congratulated upon having that sort of illustration of what the world is and what it contains; and inasmuch as you are going all over the world you ought to be the better able to see the relation that your country bears to the rest of the world.
Sentence 27: It ought to be one of your thoughts all the time that you are sample Americans—not merely sample Navy men, not merely sample soldiers, but sample Americans—and that you have the point of view of America with regard to her Navy and her Army; that she is using them as the instruments of civilization, not as the instruments of aggression.
Sentence 28: The idea of America is to serve humanity, and every time you let the Stars and Stripes free to the wind you ought to realize that that is in itself a message that you are on an errand which other navies have sometimes tunes forgotten; not an errand of conquest, but an errand of service.
Sentence 29: I always have the same thought when I look at the flag of the United States, for I know something of the history of the struggle of mankind for liberty.
Sentence 30: When I look at that flag it seems to me as if the white stripes were strips of parchment upon which are written the rights of man, and the red stripes the streams of blood by which those rights have been made good.
Sentence 31: Then in the little blue firmament in the corner have swung out the stars of the States of the American Union.
Sentence 32: So it is, as it were, a sort of floating charter that has come down to us from Runnymede, when men said, "We will not have masters; we will be a people, and we will seek our own liberty.
Sentence 33: "
You are not serving a government, gentlemen; you are serving a people.
Sentence 34: For we who for the time being constitute the Government are merely instruments for a little while in the hands of a great Nation which chooses whom it will to carry out its decrees and who invariably rejects the man who forgets the ideals which it intended him to serve.
Sentence 35: So that I hope that wherever you go you will have a generous, comprehending love of the people you come into contact with, and will come back and tell us, if you can, what service the United States can render to the remotest parts of the world; tell us where you see men suffering; tell us where you think advice will lift them up; tell us where you think that the counsel of statesmen may better the fortunes of unfortunate men; always having it in mind that you are champions of what is right and fair all 'round for the public welfare, no matter where you are, and that it is that you are ready to fight for and not merely on the drop of a hat or upon some slight punctilio, but that you are champions of your fellow-men, particularly of that great body one hundred million strong whom you represent in the United States.
Sentence 36: What do you think is the most lasting impression that those boys down at Vera Cruz are going to leave?
Sentence 37: They have had to use some force—I pray God it may not be necessary for them to use any more—but do you think that the way they fought is going to be the most lasting impression?
Sentence 38: Have men not fought ever since the world began?
Sentence 39: Is there anything new in using force?
Sentence 40: The new things in the world are the things that are divorced from force.
Sentence 41: The things that show the moral compulsions of the human conscience, those are the things by which we have been building up civilization, not by force.
Sentence 42: And the lasting impression that those boys are going to leave is this, that they exercise self-control; that they are ready and diligent to make the place where they went fitter to live in than they found it; that they regarded other people's rights; that they did not strut and bluster, but went quietly, like self-respecting gentlemen, about their legitimate work.
Sentence 43: And the people of Vera Cruz, who feared the Americans and despised the Americans, are going to get a very different taste in their mouths about the whole thing when the boys of the Navy and the Army come away.
Sentence 44: Is that not something to be proud of, that you know how to use force like men of conscience and like gentlemen, serving your fellow-men and not trying to overcome them?
Sentence 45: Like that gallant gentleman who has so long borne the heats and perplexities and distresses of the situation in Vera Cruz—Admiral Fletcher.
Sentence 46: I mention him, because his service there has been longer and so much of the early perplexities fell upon him.
Sentence 47: I have been in almost daily communication with Admiral Fletcher, and I have tested his temper.
Sentence 48: I have tested his discretion.
Sentence 49: I know that he is a man with a touch of statesmanship about him, and he has grown bigger in my eye each day as I have read his dispatches, for he has sought always to serve the thing he was trying to do in the temper that we all recognize and love to believe is typically American.
Sentence 50: I challenge you youngsters to go out with these conceptions, knowing that you are part of the Government and force of the United States and that men will judge us by you.
Sentence 51: I am not afraid of the verdict.
Sentence 52: I cannot look in your faces and doubt what it will be, but I want you to take these great engines of force out onto the seas like adventurers enlisted for the elevation of the spirit of the human race.
Sentence 53: For that is the only distinction that America has.
Sentence 54: Other nations have been strong, other nations have piled wealth as high as the sky, but they have come into disgrace because they used their force and their wealth for the oppression of mankind and their own aggrandizement; and America will not bring glory to herself, but disgrace, by following the beaten paths of history.
Sentence 55: We must strike out upon new paths, and we must count upon you gentlemen to be the explorers who will carry this spirit and spread this message all over the seas and in every port of the civilized world.
Sentence 56: You see, therefore, why I said that when I faced you I felt there was a special significance.
Sentence 57: I am not present on an occasion when you are about to scatter on various errands.
Sentence 58: You are all going on the same errand, and I like to feel bound with you in one common organization for the glory of America.
Sentence 59: And her glory goes deeper than all the tinsel, goes deeper than the sound of guns and the clash of sabers; it goes down to the very foundations of those things that have made the spirit of men free and happy and content.
