Sentence 1: 1914 Second Annual Message 19

Gentlemen of the Congress:
The session upon which you are now entering will be the closing session of the Sixty-third Congress, a Congress, I venture to say, which will long be remembered for the great body of thoughtful and constructive work which it has done, in loyal response to the thought and needs of the country.
Sentence 2: I should like in this address to review the notable record and try to make adequate assessment of it; but no doubt we stand too near the work that has been done and are ourselves too much part of it to play the part of historians toward it.
Sentence 3: Our program of legislation with regard to the regulation of business is now virtually complete.
Sentence 4: It has been put forth, as we intended, as a whole, and leaves no conjecture as to what is to follow.
Sentence 5: The road at last lies clear and firm before business.
Sentence 6: It is a road which it can travel without fear or embarrassment.
Sentence 7: It is the road to ungrudged, unclouded success.
Sentence 8: In it every honest man, every man who believes that the public interest is part of his own interest, may walk with perfect confidence.
Sentence 9: Moreover, our thoughts are now more of the future than of the past.
Sentence 10: While we have worked at our tasks of peace the circumstances of the whole age have been altered by war.
Sentence 11: What we have done for our own land and our own people we did with the best that was in us, whether of character or of intelligence, with sober enthusiasm and a confidence in the principles upon which we were acting which sustained us at every step of the difficult undertaking; but it is done.
Sentence 12: It has passed from our hands.
Sentence 13: It is now an established part of the legislation of the country.
Sentence 14: Its usefulness, its effects will disclose themselves in experience.
Sentence 15: What chiefly strikes us now, as we look about us during these closing days of a year which will be forever memorable in the history of the world, is that we face new tasks, have been facing them these six months, must face them in the months to come,-face them without partisan feeling, like men who have forgotten everything but a common duty and the fact that we are representatives of a great people whose thought is not of us but of what America owes to herself and to all mankind in such circumstances as these upon which we look amazed and anxious.
Sentence 16: War has interrupted the means of trade not only but also the processes of production.
Sentence 17: In Europe it is destroying men and resources wholesale and upon a scale unprecedented and appalling, There is reason to fear that the time is near, if it be not already at hand, when several of the countries of Europe will find it difficult to do for their people what they have hitherto been always easily able to do,--many essential and fundamental things.
Sentence 18: At any rate, they will need our help and our manifold services as they have never needed them before; and we should be ready, more fit and ready than we have ever been.
Sentence 19: It is of equal consequence that the nations whom Europe has usually supplied with innumerable articles of manufacture and commerce of which they are in constant need and without which their economic development halts and stands still can now get only a small part of what they formerly imported and eagerly look to us to supply their all but empty markets.
Sentence 20: This is particularly true of our own neighbors, the States, great and small, of Central and South America.
Sentence 21: Their lines of trade have hitherto run chiefly athwart the seas, not to our ports but to the ports of Great Britain and of the older continent of Europe.
Sentence 22: I do not stop to inquire why, or to make any comment on probable causes.
Sentence 23: What interests us just now is not the explanation but the fact, and our duty and opportunity in the presence of it.
Sentence 24: Here are markets which we must supply, and we must find the means of action.
Sentence 25: The United States, this great people for whom we speak and act, should be ready, as never before, to serve itself and to serve mankind; ready with its resources, its energies, its forces of production, and its means of distribution.
Sentence 26: It is a very practical matter, a matter of ways and means.
Sentence 27: We have the resources, but are we fully ready to use them?
Sentence 28: And, if we can make ready what we have, have we the means at hand to distribute it?
Sentence 29: We are not fully ready; neither have we the means of distribution.
Sentence 30: We are willing, but we are not fully able.
Sentence 31: We have the wish to serve and to serve greatly, generously; but we are not prepared as we should be.
Sentence 32: We are not ready to mobilize our resources at once.
Sentence 33: We are not prepared to use them immediately and at their best, without delay and without waste.
Sentence 34: To speak plainly, we have grossly erred in the way in which we have stunted and hindered the development of our merchant marine.
Sentence 35: And now, when we need ships, we have not got them.
Sentence 36: We have year after year debated, without end or conclusion, the best policy to pursue with regard to the use of the ores and forests and water powers of our national domain in the rich States of the West, when we should have acted; and they are still locked up.
Sentence 37: The key is still turned upon them, the door shut fast at which thousands of vigorous men, full of initiative, knock clamorously for admittance.
Sentence 38: The water power of our navigable streams outside the national domain also, even in the eastern States, where we have worked and planned for generations, is still not used as it might be, because we will and we won't; because the laws we have made do not intelligently balance encouragement against restraint.
Sentence 39: We withhold by regulation.
Sentence 40: I have come to ask you to remedy and correct these mistakes and omissions, even at this short session of a Congress which would certainly seem to have done all the work that could reasonably be expected of it.
Sentence 41: The time and the circumstances are extraordinary, and so must our efforts be also.
Sentence 42: Fortunately, two great measures, finely conceived, the one to unlock, with proper safeguards, the resources of the national domain, the other to encourage the use of the navigable waters outside that domain for the generation of power, have already passed the House of Representatives and are ready for immediate consideration and action by the Senate.
Sentence 43: With the deepest earnestness I urge their prompt passage.
Sentence 44: In them both we turn our backs upon hesitation and makeshift and formulate a genuine policy of use and conservation, in the best sense of those words.
Sentence 45: We owe the one measure not only to the people of that great western country for whose free and systematic development, as it seems to me, our legislation has done so little, but also to the people of the Nation as a whole; and we as clearly owe the other fulfillment of our repeated promises that the water power of the country should in fact as well as in name be put at the disposal of great industries which can make economical and profitable use of it, the rights of the public being adequately guarded the while, and monopoly in the use prevented.
Sentence 46: To have begun such measures and not completed them would indeed mar the record of this great Congress very seriously.
Sentence 47: I hope and confidently believe that they will be completed.
Sentence 48: And there is another great piece of legislation which awaits and should receive the sanction of the Senate:
Sentence 49: I mean the bill which gives a larger measure of self-government to the people of the Philippines.
Sentence 50: How better, in this time of anxious questioning and perplexed policy, could we show our confidence in the principles of liberty, as the source as well as the expression of life, how better could we demonstrate our own self-possession and steadfastness in the courses of justice and disinterestedness than by thus going calmly forward to fulfill our promises to a dependent people, who will now look more anxiously than ever to see whether we have indeed the liberality, the unselfishness, the courage, the faith we have boasted and professed.
Sentence 51: I can not believe that the Senate will let this great measure of constructive justice await the action of another Congress.
Sentence 52: Its passage would nobly crown the record of these two years of memorable labor.
Sentence 53: But I think that you will agree with me that this does not complete the toll of our duty.
Sentence 54: How are we to carry our goods to the empty markets of which I have spoken if we have not the ships?
Sentence 55: How are we to build tip a great trade if we have not the certain and con,;tpnt means of transportation upon which all profitable and useful commerce depends?
Sentence 56: And how are we to get the ships if we wait for the trade to develop without them?
Sentence 57: To correct the many mistakes by which we have discouraged and all but destroyed the merchant marine of the country, to retrace the steps by which we have..
Sentence 58: it seems almost deliberately, withdrawn our flag from the seas.. except where, here and there, a ship of war is bidden carry it or some wandering yacht displays it, would take a long time and involve many detailed items of legislation, and tile trade which we ought immediately to handle would disappear or find other channels while we debated the items.
Sentence 59: The case is not unlike that which confronted us when our own continent was to be opened up to settlement and industry, and we needed long lines of railway, extended means of transportation prepared beforehand, if development was not to lag intolerably and wait interminably.
Sentence 60: We lavishly subsidized the building of transcontinental railroads.
Sentence 61: We look back upon that with regret now, because the subsidies led to many scandals of which we are ashamed; but we know that the railroads had to be built, and if we had it to do over again we should of course build them, but in another way.
Sentence 62: Therefore I propose another way of providing the means of transportation, which must precede, not tardily follow, the development of our trade with our neighbor states of America.
Sentence 63: It may seem a reversal of the natural order of things, but it is true, that the routes of trade must be actually opened-by many ships and regular sailings and moderate charges-before streams of merchandise will flow freely and profitably through them.
Sentence 64: Hence the pending shipping bill, discussed at the last session but as yet passed by neither House.
Sentence 65: In my judgment such legislation is imperatively needed and can not wisely be postponed.
Sentence 66: The Government must open these gates of trade, and open them wide; open them before it is altogether profitable to open them, or altogether reasonable to ask private capital to open them at a venture.
Sentence 67: It is not a question of the Government monopolizing the field.
Sentence 68: It should take action to make it certain that transportation at reasonable rates will be promptly provided, even where the carriage is not at first profitable; and then, when the carriage has become sufficiently profitable to attract and engage private capital, and engage it in abundance, the Government ought to withdraw.
Sentence 69: I very earnestly hope that the Congress will be of this opinion, and that both Houses will adopt this exceedingly important bill.
Sentence 70: The great subject of rural credits still remains to be dealt with, and it is a matter of deep regret that the difficulties of the subject have seemed to render it impossible to complete a bill for passage at this session.
Sentence 71: But it can not be perfected yet, and therefore there are no other constructive measures the necessity for which I will at this time call your attention to; but I would be negligent of a very manifest duty were I not to call the attention of the Senate to the fact that the proposed convention for safety at sea awaits its confirmation and that the limit fixed in the convention itself for its acceptance is the last day of the present month.
Sentence 72: The conference in which this convention originated was called by the United States; the representatives of the United States played a very influential part indeed in framing the provisions of the proposed convention; and those provisions are in themselves for the most part admirable.
Sentence 73: It would hardly be consistent with the part we have played in the whole matter to let it drop and go by the board as if forgotten and neglected.
Sentence 74: It was ratified in May by the German Government and in August by the Parliament of Great Britain.
Sentence 75: It marks a most hopeful and decided advance in international civilization.
Sentence 76: We should show our earnest good faith in a great matter by adding our own acceptance of it.
Sentence 77: There is another matter of which I must make special mention, if I am to discharge my conscience, lest it should escape your attention.
Sentence 78: It may seem a very small thing.
Sentence 79: It affects only a single item of appropriation.
Sentence 80: But many human lives and many great enterprises hang upon it.
Sentence 81: It is the matter of making adequate provision for the survey and charting of our coasts.
Sentence 82: It is immediately pressing and exigent in connection with the immense coast line of Alaska, a coast line greater than that of the United States themselves, though it is also very important indeed with regard to the older coasts of the continent.
Sentence 83: We can not use our great Alaskan domain, ships will not ply thither, if those coasts and their many hidden dangers are not thoroughly surveyed and charted.
Sentence 84: The work is incomplete at almost every point.
Sentence 85: Ships and lives have been lost in threading what were supposed to be well-known main channels.
Sentence 86: We have not provided adequate vessels or adequate machinery for the survey and charting.
Sentence 87: We have used old vessels that were not big enough or strong enough and which were so nearly unseaworthy that our inspectors would not have allowed private owners to send them to sea.
Sentence 88: This is a matter which, as I have said, seems small, but is in reality very great.
Sentence 89: Its importance has only to be looked into to be appreciated.
Sentence 90: Before I close may I say a few words upon two topics, much discussed out of doors, upon which it is highly important that our judgment should be clear, definite, and steadfast?
Sentence 91: One of these is economy in government expenditures.
Sentence 92: The duty of economy is not debatable.
Sentence 93: It is manifest and imperative.
Sentence 94: In the appropriations we pass we are spending the money of the great people whose servants we are,-not our own.
Sentence 95: We are trustees and responsible stewards in the spending.
Sentence 96: The only thing debatable and upon which we should be careful to make our thought and purpose clear is the kind of economy demanded of us.
Sentence 97: I assert with the greatest confidence that the people of the United States are not jealous of the amount their Government costs if they are sure that they get what they need and desire for the outlay, that the money is being spent for objects of which they approve, and that it is being applied with good business sense and management.
Sentence 98: Governments grow, piecemeal, both in their tasks and in the means by which those tasks are to be performed, and very few Governments are organized, I venture to say, as wise and experienced business men would organize them if they had a clean sheet of paper to write upon.
Sentence 99: Certainly the Government of the United States is not.
Sentence 100: I think that it is generally agreed that there should be a systematic reorganization and reassembling of its parts so as to secure greater efficiency and effect considerable savings in expense.
Sentence 101: But the amount of money saved in that way would, I believe, though no doubt considerable in itself, running, it may be, into the millions, be relatively small,-small, I mean, in proportion to the total necessary outlays of the Government.
Sentence 102: It would be thoroughly worth effecting, as every saving would, great or small.
Sentence 103: Our duty is not altered by the scale of the saving.
Sentence 104: But my point is that the people of the United States do not wish to curtail the activities of this Government; they wish, rather, to enlarge them; and with every enlargement, with the mere growth, indeed, of the country itself, there must come, of course, the inevitable increase of expense.
Sentence 105: The sort of economy we ought to practice may be effected, and ought to be effected, by a careful study and assessment of the tasks to be performed; and the money spent ought to be made to yield the best possible returns in efficiency and achievement.
Sentence 106: And, like good stewards, we should so account for every dollar of our appropriations as to make it perfectly evident what it was spent for and in what way it was spent.
Sentence 107: It is not expenditure but extravagance that we should fear being criticized for; not paying for the legitimate enterprise and undertakings of a great Government whose people command what it should do, but adding what will benefit only a few or pouring money out for what need not have been undertaken at all or might have been postponed or better and more economically conceived and carried out.
Sentence 108: The Nation is not niggardly; it is very generous.
Sentence 109: It will chide us only if we forget for whom we pay money out and whose money it is we pay.
Sentence 110: These are large and general standards, but they are not very difficult of application to particular cases.
Sentence 111: The other topic I shall take leave to mention goes deeper into the principles of our national life and policy.
Sentence 112: It is the subject of national defense.
Sentence 113: It can not be discussed without first answering some very searching questions.
Sentence 114: It is said in some quarters that we are not prepared for war.
Sentence 115: What is meant by being prepared?
Sentence 116: Is it meant that we are not ready upon brief notice to put a nation in the field, a nation of men trained to arms?
Sentence 117: Of course we are not ready to do that; and we shall never be in time of peace so long as we retain our present political principles and institutions.
Sentence 118: And what is it that it is suggested we should be prepared to do?
Sentence 119: To defend ourselves against attack?
Sentence 120: We have always found means to do that, and shall find them whenever it is necessary without calling our people away from their necessary tasks to render compulsory military service in times of peace.
Sentence 121: Allow me to speak with great plainness and directness upon this great matter and to avow my convictions with deep earnestness.
Sentence 122: I have tried to know what America is, what her people think, what they are, what they most cherish and hold dear.
Sentence 123: I hope that some of their finer passions are in my own heart, --some of the great conceptions and desires which gave birth to this Government and which have made the voice of this people a voice of peace and hope and liberty among the peoples of the world, and that, speaking my own thoughts, I shall, at least in part, speak theirs also, however faintly and inadequately, upon this vital matter.
Sentence 124: We are at peace with all the world.
Sentence 125: No one who speaks counsel based on fact or drawn from a just and candid interpretation of realities can say that there is reason to fear that from any quarter our independence or the integrity of our territory is threatened.
Sentence 126: Dread of the power of any other nation we are incapable of.
Sentence 127: We are not jealous of rivalry in the fields of commerce or of any other peaceful achievement.
Sentence 128: We mean to live our own lives as we will; but we mean also to let live.
Sentence 129: We are, indeed, a true friend to all the nations of the world, because we threaten none, covet the possessions of none, desire the overthrow of none.
Sentence 130: Our friendship can be accepted and is accepted without reservation, because it is offered in a spirit and for a purpose which no one need ever question or suspect.
Sentence 131: Therein lies our greatness.
Sentence 132: We are the champions of peace and of concord.
Sentence 133: And we should be very jealous of this distinction which we have sought to earn.
Sentence 134: just now we should be particularly jealous of it because it is our dearest present hope that this character and reputation may presently, in God's providence, bring us an opportunity such as has seldom been vouchsafed any nation, the opportunity to counsel and obtain peace in the world and reconciliation and a healing settlement of many a matter that has cooled and interrupted the friendship of nations.
Sentence 135: This is the time above all others when we should wish and resolve to keep our strength by self-possession, our influence by preserving our ancient principles of action.
Sentence 136: From the first we have had a clear and settled policy with regard to military establishments.
Sentence 137: We never have had, and while we retain our present principles and ideals we never shall have, a large standing army.
Sentence 138: If asked, Are you ready to defend yourselves?
Sentence 139: we reply, Most assuredly, to the utmost; and yet we shall not turn America into a military camp.
Sentence 140: We will not ask our young men to spend the best years of their lives making soldiers of themselves.
Sentence 141: There is another sort of energy in us.
Sentence 142: It will know how to declare itself and make itself effective should occasion arise.
Sentence 143: And especially when half the world is on fire we shall be careful to make our moral insurance against the spread of the conflagration very definite and certain and adequate indeed.
Sentence 144: Let us remind ourselves, therefore, of the only thing we can do or will do.
Sentence 145: We must depend in every time of national peril, in the future as in the past, not upon a standing army, nor yet upon a reserve army, but upon a citizenry trained and accustomed to arms.
Sentence 146: It will be right enough, right American policy, based upon our accustomed principles and practices, to provide a system by which every citizen who will volunteer for the training may be made familiar with the use of modern arms, the rudiments of drill and maneuver, and the maintenance and sanitation of camps.
Sentence 147: We should encourage such training and make it a means of discipline which our young men will learn to value.
Sentence 148: It is right that we should provide it not only, but that we should make it as attractive as possible, and so induce our young men to undergo it at such times as they can command a little freedom and can seek the physical development they need, for mere health's sake, if for nothing more.
Sentence 149: Every means by which such things can be stimulated is legitimate, and such a method smacks of true American ideas.
Sentence 150: It is right, too, that the National Guard of the States should be developed and strengthened by every means which is not inconsistent with our obligations to our own people or with the established policy of our Government.
Sentence 151: And this, also, not because the time or occasion specially calls for such measures, but because it should be our constant policy to make these provisions for our national peace and safety.
Sentence 152: More than this carries with it a reversal of the whole history and character of our polity.
Sentence 153: More than this, proposed at this time, permit me to say, would mean merely that we had lost our self-possession, that we had been thrown off our balance by a war with which we have nothing to do, whose causes can not touch us, whose very existence affords us opportunities of friendship and disinterested service which should make us ashamed of any thought of hostility or fearful preparation for trouble.
Sentence 154: This is assuredly the opportunity for which a people and a government like ours were raised up, the opportunity not only to speak but actually to embody and exemplify the counsels of peace and amity and the lasting concord which is based on justice and fair and generous dealing.
Sentence 155: A powerful navy we have always regarded as our proper and natural means of defense, and it has always been of defense that we have thought, never of aggression or of conquest.
Sentence 156: But who shall tell us now what sort of navy to build?
Sentence 157: We shall take leave to be strong upon the seas, in the future as in the past; and there will be no thought of offense or of provocation in that.
Sentence 158: Our ships are our natural bulwarks.
Sentence 159: When will the experts tell us just what kind we should construct-and when will they be right for ten years together, if the relative efficiency of craft of different kinds and uses continues to change as we have seen it change under our very eyes in these last few months ?
Sentence 160: But I turn away from the subject.
Sentence 161: It is not new.
Sentence 162: There is no new need to discuss it.
Sentence 163: We shall not alter our attitude toward it because some amongst us are nervous and excited.
Sentence 164: We shall easily and sensibly agree upon a policy of defense.
Sentence 165: The question has not changed its aspects because the times are not normal.
Sentence 166: Our policy will not be for an occasion.
Sentence 167: It will be conceived as a permanent and settled thing, which we will pursue at all seasons, without haste and after a fashion perfectly consistent with the peace of the world, the abiding friendship of states, and the unhampered freedom of all with whom we deal.
Sentence 168: Let there be no misconception.
Sentence 169: The country has been misinformed.
Sentence 170: We have not been negligent of national defense.
Sentence 171: We are not unmindful of the great responsibility resting upon us.
Sentence 172: We shall learn and profit by the lesson of every experience and every new circumstance; and what is needed will be adequately done.
Sentence 173: I close, as I began, by reminding you of the great tasks and duties of peace which challenge our best powers and invite us to build what will last, the tasks to which we can address ourselves now and at all times with free-hearted zest and with all the finest gifts of constructive wisdom we possess.
Sentence 174: To develop our life and our resources; to supply our own people, and the people of the world as their need arises, from the abundant plenty of our fields and our marts of trade to enrich the commerce of our own States and of the world with the products of our mines, our farms, and our factories, with the creations of our thought and the fruits of our character,-this is what will hold our attention and our enthusiasm steadily, now and in the years to come, as we strive to show in our life as a nation what liberty and the inspirations of an emancipated spirit may do for men and for societies, for individuals, for states, and for mankind.
