Sentence 1: 1917 Address Flag Day

My Fellow Citizens: We meet to celebrate Flag Day because this flag which we honour and under which we serve is the emblem of our unity, our power, our thought and purpose as a nation.
Sentence 2: It has no other character than that which we give it from generation to generation.
Sentence 3: The choices are ours.
Sentence 4: It floats in majestic silence above the hosts that execute those choices, whether in peace or in war.
Sentence 5: And yet, though silent, it speaks to us.
Sentence 6: —speaks to us of the past, * of the men and women who went before us and of the records they wrote upon it.
Sentence 7: We celebrate the day of its birth; and from its birth until now it has witnessed a great history, has floated on high the symbol of great, events, of a great plan of life worked out by a great people.
Sentence 8: We are about to carry it into battle, to lift it where it will draw the fire of our enemies.
Sentence 9: We are about to bid thousands, hundreds of thousands, it may be millions, of our men.
Sentence 10: the young, the strong, the capable men of the nation, to go forth and die beneath it on fields of blood far away, —for what?
Sentence 11: For some unaccustomed thing?
Sentence 12: For something for which it has never sought the fire before?
Sentence 13: American armies were never before sent across the seas.
Sentence 14: Why arc they sent now?
Sentence 15: For some new purpose, for which this great flag has never been carried before, or for some old.
Sentence 16: familiar, heroic purpose for which it has seen men, its own men, die on every battlefield upon which Americans have borne arms since the Revolution?
Sentence 17: These are questions which must be answered.
Sentence 18: We are Americans.
Sentence 19: We in our turn serve America, and can serve her with no private purpose.
Sentence 20: We must use her flag as she has always used it.
Sentence 21: We are accountable at the bar of history and must plead in utter frankness what purpose it is we seek to serve.
Sentence 22: It is plain enough how we were forced into the war.
Sentence 23: The extraordinary insults and aggressions of the Imperial German Government left us no self-respecting choice but to take up arms in defense of our rights as a free people and of our honour as a sovereign government.
Sentence 24: The military masters of Germany denied us the right to be neutral.
Sentence 25: They filled our unsuspecting communities with vicious spies and conspirators and sought to corrupt the opinion of our people in their own behalf.
Sentence 26: When they found that they could not do that, their agents diligently spread sedition amongst us and sought to draw our own citizens from their allegiance, —and some of those agents were men connected with the official Embassy of the German Government itself here in our own capital.
Sentence 27: They sought by violence to destroy our industries and arrest our commerce.
Sentence 28: They tried to incite Mexico to take up arms against us and to draw Japan into a hostile alliance with her, —and that, not by indirection, but by direct suggestion from the Foreign Office in Berlin.
Sentence 29: They impudently denied us the use of the high seas and repeatedly executed their threat that they would send to their death any of our people who ventured to approach the coasts of Europe.
Sentence 30: And many of our own people were corrupted.
Sentence 31: Men began to look upon their own neighbours with suspicion and to wonder in their hot resentment and surprise whether there was any community in which hostile intrigue did not lurk.
Sentence 32: What great nation in such circumstances would not have taken up arms?
Sentence 33: Much as we had desired peace, it was denied us, and not of our own choice.
Sentence 34: This flag under which we serve would have been dishonoured had we withheld our hand.
Sentence 35: But that is only part of the story.
Sentence 36: We know now as clearly as we knew before we were ourselves engaged that we are not the enemies of the German people and that they are not our enemies.
Sentence 37: They did not originate or desire this hideous war or wish that we should be drawn into it; and we are vaguely conscious that we are fighting their cause, as they will some day see it, as well as our own.
Sentence 38: They are themselves in the grip of the same sinister power that has now at last stretched its ugly talons out and drawn blood from us.
Sentence 39: The whole world is at war because the whole world is in the grip of that power and is trying out the great battle which shall determine whether it is to be brought under its mastery or fling itself free.
Sentence 40: The war was begun by the military masters of Germany, who proved to be also the masters of Austria-Hungary.
Sentence 41: These men have never regarded nations as peoples, men, women, and children of like blood and frame as themselves, for whom governments existed and in whom governments had their life.
Sentence 42: They have regarded them merely as serviceable organizations which they could by force or intrigue bend or corrupt to their own purpose.
Sentence 43: They have regarded the smaller states, in particular, and the peoples who could be overwhelmed by force, as their natural tools and instruments of domination.
Sentence 44: Their purpose has long been avowed.
Sentence 45: The statesmen of other nations, to whom that purpose was incredible, paid little attention; regarded what German professors expounded in their classrooms and German writers set forth to the world as the goal of German policy as rather the dream of minds detached from practical affairs, as preposterous private conceptions of German destiny, than as the actual plans of responsible rulers; but the rulers of Germany themselves knew all the while what concrete plans, what well advanced intrigues lay back of what the professors and the writers were saying, and were glad to go forward unmolested, filling the thrones of Balkan states with German princes, putting German officers at the service of Turkey to drill her armies and make interest with her government, developing plans of sedition and rebellion in India and Egypt, setting their fires in Persia.
Sentence 46: The demands made by Austria upon Servia were a mere single step in a plan which compassed Europe and Asia, from Berlin to Bagdad.
Sentence 47: They hoped those demands might not arouse Europe, but they meant to press them whether they did or not, for they thought themselves ready for the final issue of arms.
Sentence 48: Their plan was to throw a broad belt of German military power and political control across the very centre of Europe and beyond the Mediterranean into the heart of Asia; and Austria-Hungary was to be as much their tool and pawn as Servia or Bulgaria or Turkey or the ponderous states of the East.
Sentence 49: Austria-Hungary, indeed, was to become part of the central German Empire, absorbed and dominated by the same forces and influences that had originally cemented the German states themselves.
Sentence 50: The dream had its heart at Berlin.
Sentence 51: It could have had a heart nowhere else!
Sentence 52: It rejected the idea of solidarity of race entirely.
Sentence 53: The choice of peoples played no part in it at all.
Sentence 54: It contemplated binding together racial and political units which could be kept together only by force, —Czechs, Magyars.
Sentence 55: Croats, Serbs, Roumanians, Turks, Armenians, —the proud states of Bohemia and Hungary, the stout little commonwealths of the Balkans, the indomitable Turks, the subtle peoples of the East
Sentence 56: These peoples did not wish to be united.
Sentence 57: They ardently desired to direct their own affairs, would be satisfied only by undisputed independence.
Sentence 58: They could be kept quiet only by the presence or the constant threat of armed men.
Sentence 59: They would live under a common power only by sheer compulsion and await the day of revolution.
Sentence 60: But the German military statesmen had reckoned with all that and were ready to deal with it in their own way.
Sentence 61: And they have actually carried the greater part of that amazing plan into execution!
Sentence 62: Look how things stand.
Sentence 63: Austria is at their mercy.
Sentence 64: It has acted, not upon its own initiative or upon the choice of its own people, but at Berlin's dictation ever since the war began.
Sentence 65: Its people now desire peace, but cannot have it until leave is granted from Berlin.
Sentence 66: The so-called Central Powers are in fact but a single Power.
Sentence 67: Servia is at its mercy, should its hands be but for a moment freed.
Sentence 68: Bulgaria has consented to its will, and Roumania is overrun.
Sentence 69: The Turkish armies, which Germans trained, are serving Germany, certainly not themselves, and the guns of German warships lying in the harbour at Constantinople remind Turkish statesmen every day that they have no choice but to take their orders from Berlin.
Sentence 70: From Hamburg to the Persian Gulf the net is spread.
Sentence 71: Is it not easy to understand the eagerness for peace that has been manifested from Berlin ever since the snare was set and sprung?
Sentence 72: Peace.
Sentence 73: peace, peace has been the talk of her Foreign Office for now a year and more; not peace upon her own initiative, but upon the initiative of the nations over which she now deems herself to hold the advantage.
Sentence 74: A little of the talk has been public, but most of it has been private.
Sentence 75: Through all sorts of channels it has come to me, and in all sorts of guises, but never with the terms disclosed which the German Government would be willing to accept.
Sentence 76: That government has other valuable pawns in its hands besides those I have mentioned.
Sentence 77: It still holds a valuable part of France, though with slowly relaxing grasp, and practically the whole of Belgium.
Sentence 78: Its armies press close upon Russia and overrun Poland at their will.
Sentence 79: It cannot go further; it dare not go back.
Sentence 80: It wishes to close its bargain before it is too late and it has little left to offer for the pound of flesh it will demand.
Sentence 81: The military masters under whom Germany is bleeding see very clearly to what point Fate has brought them.
Sentence 82: If they fall back or are forced back an inch, their power both abroad and at home will fall to pieces like a house of cards.
Sentence 83: It is their power at home they are thinking about now more than their power abroad.
Sentence 84: It is that power which is trembling under their very feet: and deep fear has entered their hearts.
Sentence 85: They have but one chance to perpetuate their military power or even their controlling political influence.
Sentence 86: If they can secure peace now with the immense advantages still in their hands which they have up to this point apparently gained, they will have justified themselves before the German people: they will have gained by force what they promised to gain by it: an immense expansion of German power, an immense enlargement of German industrial and commercial opportunities.
Sentence 87: Their prestige will be secure, and with their prestige their political power.
Sentence 88: If they fail, their people will thrust them aside; a government accountable to the people themselves will be set op in Germany as it has been in England, in the United States, in France, and in all the great countries of the modern time except.
Sentence 89: Germany.
Sentence 90: If they succeed they are safe and Germany and the world are undone: if they fail Germany is saved and the world will be at peace.
Sentence 91: If they succeed, America will fall within the menace.
Sentence 92: We and all the rest of the world must remain armed, as they will remain, and must make ready for the next step in their aggression: if they fail, the world may unite for peace and Germany may be of the union.
Sentence 93: Do you not now understand the new intrigue, the intrigue for peace, and why the masters of Germany do not hesitate to use any agency that promises to effect their purpose, the deceit of the nations?
Sentence 94: Their present particular aim is to deceive all those who throughout the world stand for the rights of peoples and the self-government of nations; for they see what immense strength the forces of justice and of liberalism are gathering out of this war.
Sentence 95: They are employing liberals in their enterprise.
Sentence 96: They are using men, in Germany and without, as their spokesmen whom they have hitherto despised and oppressed, using them for their own destruction, —socialists, the leaders of labour, the thinkers they have hitherto sought to silence.
Sentence 97: Get them once succeed and these men, now their tools, will be ground to powder beneath the weight of the great military empire they will have set up; the revolutionists in Russia will be cut off from all succour or cooperation in western Europe and a counter revolution fostered and supported; Germany herself will lose her chance of freedom; and all Europe will arm for the next, the final struggle.
Sentence 98: The sinister intrigue is being no less actively conducted in this country than in Russia and in every country in Europe to which the agents and dupes of the Imperial German Government can get access.
Sentence 99: That government has many spokesmen here, in places high and low.
Sentence 100: They have learned discretion.
Sentence 101: They keep within the law.
Sentence 102: It is opinion they utter now, not sedition.
Sentence 103: They proclaim the liberal purposes of their masters: declare this a foreign war which can touch America with no danger to either her lands or her institutions; set England at the centre of the stage and talk of her ambition to assert economic dominion throughout the world; appeal to our ancient tradition of isolation in the politics of the nations; and seek to undermine the government with false professions of loyalty to its principles.
Sentence 104: But they will make no headway.
Sentence 105: The false betray themselves always in every accent.
Sentence 106: It is only friends and partisans of the German Government whom we have already identified who utter these thinly disguised disloyalties.
Sentence 107: The facts are patent to all the world, and nowhere are they more plainly seen than in the United States, where we are accustomed to deal with facts and not with sophistries; and the great fact that stands out above all the rest is that this is a Peoples' War, a war for freedom and justice and self-government amongst all the nations of the world, a war to make the world safe for the peoples who live upon it and have made it their own, the German people themselves included; and that with us rests the choice to break through all these hypocrisies and patent cheats and masks of brute force and help set the world free, or else stand aside and let it be dominated a long age through by sheer weight, of arms and the arbitrary choices of self-constituted masters, by the nation which can maintain the biggest armies and the most irresistible armaments, —a power to which the world has afforded no parallel and in the face of which political freedom must wither and perish.
Sentence 108: For us there is but one choice.
Sentence 109: We have made it.
Sentence 110: Woe be to the man or group of men that seeks to stand in our way in this day of high resolution when every principle we hold dearest is to be vindicated and made secure for the salvation of the nations.
Sentence 111: We are ready to plead at the bar of history, and our flag shall wear a new lustre.
Sentence 112: Once more we shall make good with our lives and fortunes the great faith to which we were born, and a new glory shall shine in the face of our people.
