Sentence 1: 1919 Remarks The French Senate Paris

Mr. President of the Senate, Mr. President of the Republic:
You have made me feel your welcome in words as generous as they are delightful, and I feel that you have paid me to-day a very unusual and distinguished honor.
Sentence 2: You have graciously called me your friend.
Sentence 3: May not I in turn call this company a company of my friends?
Sentence 4: For everything that you have so finely said to-day, sir, has been corroborated in every circumstance of our visit to this country.
Sentence 5: Everywhere we have been welcomed not only, but welcomed in the same spirit and with the same thought, until it has seemed as if the spirits of the two countries came together in an unusual and beautiful accord.
Sentence 6: We know the long breeding of peril through which France has gone.
Sentence 7: France thought us remote in comprehension and sympathy, and I dare say there were times when we did not comprehend as you comprehended the danger in the presence of which the world stood.
Sentence 8: There was no time when we did not know of its existence, but there were times when we did not know how near it was.
Sentence 9: And I fully understand, sir, that throughout these trying years, when mankind has waited for the catastrophe, the anxiety of France must have been the deepest and most constant of all.
Sentence 10: For she did stand at the frontier of freedom.
Sentence 11: She had carved out her own fortunes through a long period of eager struggle.
Sentence 12: She had done great things in building up a great new France: and just across the border, separated from her only by a few fortifications and a little country whose neutrality it has turned out the enemy did not respect, lay the shadow cast by the cloud which enveloped Germany, the cloud of intrigue, the cloud of dark purpose, the cloud of sinister design.
Sentence 13: This shadow lay at the very borders of France.
Sentence 14: And yet it is fine to remember, sir, that for France this was not only a peril but a challenge.
Sentence 15: France did not tremble.
Sentence 16: France waited and got ready, and it is a fine thing that though France quietly and in her own way prepared her sons for the struggle that was coming, she never took the initiative or did a single thing that was aggressive.
Sentence 17: She had prepared herself for defense, not in order, to impose her will upon other peoples.
Sentence 18: She had prepared herself that no other people might impose its will upon her.
Sentence 19: As I stand with you and as I mix with the delightful people of this country I see this in their thoughts: "America always was our friend.
Sentence 20: Now she understands.
Sentence 21: Now she comprehends: and now she has come to bring us this message, that understanding she will always be ready to help."
Sentence 22: And, while, as you say, sir, this danger may prove to be a continuing danger, while it is true that France will always be nearest this threat, if we can not turn it from a threat into a promise, there are many elements that ought to reassure France.
Sentence 23: There is a new world, not ahead of us, but around us.
Sentence 24: The whole world is awake, and it is awake to its community of interest.
Sentence 25: It knows that its dearest interests are involved in its standing together for a common purpose.
Sentence 26: It knows that the peril of France, if it continues, will be the peril of the world.
Sentence 27: It knows that not only France must organize against this peril, but that the world must organize against it.
Sentence 28: So I see in these welcomes not only hospitality, not only kindness, not only hope, but purpose, a definite, clearly defined purpose that men, understanding one another, must now support one another, and that all the sons of freedom are under a common oath to see that freedom never suffers this danger again.
Sentence 29: That to my mind is the impressive element of this welcome.
Sentence 30: I know how much of it, sir, and I know how little of it, to appropriate to myself.
Sentence 31: I know that I have the very distinguished honor to represent a nation whose heart is in this business, and I am proud to speak for the people whom I represent.
Sentence 32: But I know that you honor me in a representative capacity, and that my words have validity only in proportion as they are the words of the people of the United States.
Sentence 33: I delight in this welcome, therefore, as if I had brought the people of the United States with me and they could see in your faces what I see— the tokens of welcome and affection.
Sentence 34: The sum of the whole matter is that France has earned and has won the brotherhood of the world.
Sentence 35: She has stood at the chief post of danger, and the thoughts of mankind and her brothers everywhere, her brothers in freedom, turn to her and center upon her.
Sentence 36: If this be true, as I believe it to be, France is fortunate to have suffered.
Sentence 37: She is fortunate to have proved her mettle as one of the champions of liberty, and she has tied to herself once and for all, all those who love freedom and truly believe in the progress and rights of man.
