Sentence 1: 1923 First Annual Message 20

Since the close of the last Congress the Nation has lost President Harding.
Sentence 2: The world knew his kindness and his humanity, his greatness and his character.
Sentence 3: He has left his mark upon history.
Sentence 4: He has made justice more certain and peace more secure.
Sentence 5: The surpassing tribute paid to his memory as he was borne across the continent to rest at last at home revealed the place lie held in the hearts of the American people.
Sentence 6: But this is not the occasion for extended reference to the man or his work.
Sentence 7: In this presence, among these who knew and loved him, that is unnecessary.
Sentence 8: But we who were associated with him could not resume together the functions of our office without pausing for a moment, and in his memory reconsecrating ourselves to the service of our country.
Sentence 9: He is gone.
Sentence 10: We remain.
Sentence 11: It is our duty, under the inspiration of his example, to take up the burdens which he was permitted to lay down, and to develop and support the wise principles of government which he represented.
Sentence 12: FOREIGN AFFAIRS
Sentence 13: For us peace reigns everywhere.
Sentence 14: We desire to perpetuate it always by granting full justice to others and requiring of others full justice to ourselves.
Sentence 15: Our country has one cardinal principle to maintain in its foreign policy.
Sentence 16: It is an American principle.
Sentence 17: It must be an American policy.
Sentence 18: We attend to our own affairs, conserve our own strength, and protect the interests of our own citizens; but we recognize thoroughly our obligation to help others, reserving to the decision of our own Judgment the time, the place, and the method.
Sentence 19: We realize the common bond of humanity.
Sentence 20: We know the inescapable law of service.
Sentence 21: Our country has definitely refused to adopt and ratify the covenant of the League of Nations.
Sentence 22: We have not felt warranted in assuming the responsibilities which its members have assumed.
Sentence 23: I am not proposing any change in this policy; neither is the Senate.
Sentence 24: The incident, so far as we are concerned, is closed.
Sentence 25: The League exists as a foreign agency.
Sentence 26: We hope it will be helpful.
Sentence 27: But the United States sees no reason to limit its own freedom and independence of action by joining it.
Sentence 28: We shall do well to recognize this basic fact in all national affairs and govern ourselves accordingly.
Sentence 29: WORLD COURT
Sentence 30: Our foreign policy has always been guided by two principles.
Sentence 31: The one is the avoidance of permanent political alliances which would sacrifice our proper independence.
Sentence 32: The other is the peaceful settlement of controversies between nations.
Sentence 33: By example and by treaty we have advocated arbitration.
Sentence 34: For nearly 25 years we have been a member of The Hague Tribunal, and have long sought the creation of a permanent World Court of Justice.
Sentence 35: I am in full accord with both of these policies.
Sentence 36: I favor the establishment of such a court intended to include the whole world.
Sentence 37: That is, and has long been, an American policy.
Sentence 38: Pending before the Senate is a proposal that this Government give its support to the Permanent Court of International Justice, which is a new and somewhat different plan.
Sentence 39: This is not a partisan question.
Sentence 40: It should not assume an artificial importance.
Sentence 41: The court is merely a convenient instrument of adjustment to which we could go, but to which we could not be brought.
Sentence 42: It should be discussed with entire candor, not by a political but by a judicial method, without pressure and without prejudice.
Sentence 43: Partisanship has no place in our foreign relations.
Sentence 44: As I wish to see a court established, and as the proposal presents the only practical plan on which many nations have ever agreed, though it may not meet every desire, I therefore commend it to the favorable consideration of the Senate, with the proposed reservations clearly indicating our refusal to adhere to the League of Nations.
Sentence 45: RUSSIA
Our diplomatic relations, lately so largely interrupted, are now being resumed, but Russia presents notable difficulties.
Sentence 46: We have every desire to see that great people, who are our traditional friends, restored to their position among the nations of the earth.
Sentence 47: We have relieved their pitiable destitution with an. enormous charity.
Sentence 48: Our Government offers no objection to the carrying on of commerce by our citizens with the people of Russia.
Sentence 49: Our Government does not propose, however, to enter into relations with another regime which refuses to recognize the sanctity of international obligations.
Sentence 50: I do not propose to barter away for the privilege of trade any of the cherished rights of humanity.
Sentence 51: I do not propose to make merchandise of any American principles.
Sentence 52: These rights and principles must go wherever the sanctions of our Government go.
Sentence 53: But while the favor of America is not for sale, I am willing to make very large concessions for the purpose of rescuing the people of Russia.
Sentence 54: Already encouraging evidences of returning to the ancient ways of society can be detected.
Sentence 55: But more are needed.
Sentence 56: Whenever there appears any disposition to compensate our citizens who were despoiled, and to recognize that debt contracted with our Government, not by the Czar, but by the newly formed Republic of Russia; whenever the active spirit of enmity to our institutions is abated; whenever there appear works mete for repentance; our country ought to be the first to go to the economic and moral rescue of Russia.
Sentence 57: We have every desire to help and no desire to injure.
Sentence 58: We hope the time is near at hand when we can act.
Sentence 59: DEBTS
Sentence 60: The current debt and interest due from foreign Governments, exclusive of the British debt of $4,600,000,000, is about $7,200,000,000.
Sentence 61: I do not favor the cancellation of this debt, but I see no objection to adjusting it in accordance with the principle adopted for the British debt.
Sentence 62: Our country would not wish to assume the role of an oppressive creditor, but would maintain the principle that financial obligations between nations are likewise moral obligations which international faith and honor require should be discharged.
Sentence 63: Our Government has a liquidated claim against Germany for the expense of the army of occupation of over $255,000,000.
Sentence 64: Besides this, the Mixed Claims Commission have before them about 12,500 claims of American citizens, aggregating about $1,225,000,000.
Sentence 65: These claims have already been reduced by a recent decision, but there are valid claims reaching well toward $500,000,000.
Sentence 66: Our thousands of citizens with credits due them of hundreds of millions of dollars have no redress save in the action of our Government.
Sentence 67: These are very substantial interests, which it is the duty of our Government to protect as best it can.
Sentence 68: That course I propose to pursue.
Sentence 69: It is for these reasons that we have a direct interest in the economic recovery of Europe.
Sentence 70: They are enlarged by our desire for the stability of civilization and the welfare of humanity.
Sentence 71: That we are making sacrifices to that end none can deny.
Sentence 72: Our deferred interest alone amounts to a million dollars every day.
Sentence 73: But recently we offered to aid with our advice and counsel.
Sentence 74: We have reiterated our desire to see France paid and Germany revived.
Sentence 75: We have proposed disarmament.
Sentence 76: We have earnestly sought to compose differences and restore peace.
Sentence 77: We shall persevere in well-doing, not by force, but by reason.
Sentence 78: FOREIGN PAPERS
Under the law the papers pertaining to foreign relations to be printed are transmitted as a part of this message.
Sentence 79: Other volumes of these papers will follow.
Sentence 80: FOREIGN SERVICE
Sentence 81: The foreign service of our Government needs to be reorganized and improved.
Sentence 82: FISCAL CONDITION
Our main problems are domestic problems.
Sentence 83: Financial stability is the first requisite of sound government.
Sentence 84: We can not escape the effect of world conditions.
Sentence 85: We can not avoid the inevitable results of the economic disorders which have reached all nations.
Sentence 86: But we shall diminish their harm to us in proportion as we continue to restore our Government finances to a secure and endurable position.
Sentence 87: This we can and must do.
Sentence 88: Upon that firm foundation rests the only hope of progress and prosperity.
Sentence 89: From that source must come relief for the people.
Sentence 90: This is being, accomplished by a drastic but orderly retrenchment, which is bringing our expenses within our means.
Sentence 91: The origin of this has been the determination of the American people, the main support has been the courage of those in authority, and the effective method has been the Budget System.
Sentence 92: The result has involved real sacrifice by department heads, but it has been made without flinching.
Sentence 93: This system is a law of the Congress.
Sentence 94: It represents your will.
Sentence 95: It must be maintained, and ought to be strengthened by the example of your observance.
Sentence 96: Without a Budget System there can be no fixed responsibility and no constructive scientific economy.
Sentence 97: This great concentration of effort by the administration and Congress has brought the expenditures, exclusive of the self-supporting Post.
Sentence 98: Office Department, down to three billion dollars.
Sentence 99: It is possible, in consequence, to make a large reduction in the taxes of the people, which is the sole object of all curtailment.
Sentence 100: This is treated at greater length in the Budget message, and a proposed plan has been presented in detail in a statement by the Secretary of the Treasury which has my unqualified approval.
Sentence 101: I especially commend a decrease on earned incomes, and further abolition of admission, message, and nuisance taxes.
Sentence 102: Tile amusement and educational value of moving pictures ought not to be taxed.
Sentence 103: Diminishing charges against moderate incomes from investment will afford immense relief, while a revision of the surtaxes will not only provide additional money for capital investment, thus stimulating industry and employing more but will not greatly reduce the revenue from that source, and may in the future actually increase it.
Sentence 104: Being opposed to war taxes in time of peace, I am not in favor of excess-profits taxes.
Sentence 105: A very great service could be rendered through immediate enactment of legislation relieving the people of some of the burden of taxation.
Sentence 106: To' reduce war taxes is to give every home a better chance.
Sentence 107: For seven years the people have borne with uncomplaining courage the tremendous burden of national and local taxation.
Sentence 108: These must both be reduced.
Sentence 109: The taxes of the Nation must be reduced now as much as prudence will permit, and expenditures must be reduced accordingly.
Sentence 110: High taxes reach everywhere and burden everybody.
Sentence 111: They gear most heavily upon the poor.
Sentence 112: They diminish industry and commerce.
Sentence 113: They make agriculture unprofitable.
Sentence 114: They increase the rates on transportation.
Sentence 115: They are a charge on every necessary of life.
Sentence 116: Of all services which the Congress can render to the country, I have no hesitation in declaring to neglect it, to postpone it, to obstruct it by unsound proposals, is to become unworthy of public confidence and untrue to public trust.
Sentence 117: The country wants this measure to have the right of way over an others.
Sentence 118: Another reform which is urgent in our fiscal system is the abolition of the right to issue tax-exempt securities.
Sentence 119: The existing system not only permits a large amount of the wealth of the Nation to escape its just burden but acts as a continual stimulant to municipal extravagance.
Sentence 120: This should be prohibited by constitutional amendment.
Sentence 121: All the wealth of the Nation ought to contribute its fair share to the expenses of the Nation.
Sentence 122: TARIFF LAW
The present tariff law has accomplished its two main objects.
Sentence 123: It has secured an abundant revenue and been productive of an abounding prosperity.
Sentence 124: Under it the country has had a very large export and import trade.
Sentence 125: A constant revision of the tariff by the Congress is disturbing and harmful.
Sentence 126: The present law contains an elastic provision authorizing the President to increase or decrease present schedules not in excess of 50 per centum to meet the difference in cost of production at home and abroad.
Sentence 127: This does not, to my mind, warrant a rewriting of the whole law, but does mean, and will be so administered, that whenever the required investigation shows that inequalities of sufficient importance exist in any schedule, the power to change them should and will be applied.
Sentence 128: SHIPPING
Sentence 129: The entire well being of our country is dependent upon transportation by sea and land.
Sentence 130: Our Government during the war acquired a large merchant fleet which should be transferred, as soon as possible, to private ownership and operation under conditions which would secure two results: First, and of prime importance, adequate means for national defense; second, adequate service to American commerce.
Sentence 131: Until shipping conditions are such that our fleet can be disposed of advantageously under these conditions, it will be operated as economically as possible under such plans as may be devised from time to time by the Shipping Board.
Sentence 132: We must have a merchant marine which meets these requirements, and we shall have to pay the cost of its service.
Sentence 133: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
The time has come to resume in a moderate way the opening of our intracoastal waterways; the control of flood waters of the Mississippi and of the Colorado Rivers; the improvement of the waterways from the Great Lakes toward the Gulf of Mexico; and the development of the great power and navigation project of the St. Lawrence River, for which efforts are now being made to secure the necessary treaty with Canada.
Sentence 134: These projects can not all be undertaken at once, but all should have the immediate consideration of the Congress and be adopted as fast as plans can be matured and the necessary funds become available.
Sentence 135: This is not incompatible with economy, for their nature does not require so much a public expenditure as a capital investment which will be reproductive, as evidenced by the marked increase in revenue from the Panama Canal.
Sentence 136: Upon these projects depend much future industrial and agricultural progress.
Sentence 137: They represent the protection of large areas from flood and the addition of a great amount of cheap power and cheap freight by use of navigation, chief of which is the bringing of ocean-going ships to the Great Lakes.
Sentence 138: Another problem of allied character is the superpower development of the Northeastern States, consideration of which is growing under the direction of the Department of Commerce by joint conference with the local authorities.
Sentence 139: RAILROADS
Criticism of the railroad law has been directed, first, to the section laying down the rule by which rates are fixed, and providing for payment to the Government and use of excess earnings; second, to the method for the adjustment of wage scales; and third, to the authority permitting consolidations.
Sentence 140: It has been erroneously assumed that the act undertakes to guarantee railroad earnings.
Sentence 141: The law requires that rates should be just and reasonable.
Sentence 142: That has always been the rule under which rates have been fixed.
Sentence 143: To make a rate that does not yield a fair return results in confiscation, and confiscatory rates are of course unconstitutional.
Sentence 144: Unless the Government adheres to the rule of making a rate that will yield a fair return, it must abandon rate making altogether.
Sentence 145: The new and important feature of that part of the law is the recapture and redistribution of excess rates.
Sentence 146: The constitutionality of this method is now before the Supreme Court for adjudication.
Sentence 147: Their decision should be awaited before attempting further legislation on this subject.
Sentence 148: Furthermore, the importance of this feature will not be great if consolidation goes into effect.
Sentence 149: The settlement of railroad labor disputes is a matter of grave public concern.
Sentence 150: The Labor Board was established to protect the public in the enjoyment of continuous service by attempting to insure justice between the companies and their employees.
Sentence 151: It has been a great help, but is not altogether satisfactory to the public, the employees, or the companies.
Sentence 152: If a substantial agreement can be reached among the groups interested, there should be no hesitation in enacting such agreement into law.
Sentence 153: If it is not reached, the Labor Board may very well be left for the present to protect the public welfare.
Sentence 154: The law for consolidations is not sufficiently effective to be expeditious.
Sentence 155: Additional legislation is needed giving authority for voluntary consolidations, both regional and route, and providing Government machinery to aid and stimulate such action, always "subject to the approval of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Sentence 156: This should authorize the commission to appoint committees for each proposed group, representing the public and the component roads, with power to negotiate with individual security holders for an exchange of their securities for those of the, consolidation on such terms and conditions as the commission may prescribe for avoiding any confiscation and preserving fair values.
Sentence 157: Should this permissive consolidation prove ineffective after a limited period, the authority of the Government will have to be directly invoked.
Sentence 158: Consolidation appears to be the only feasible method for the maintenance of an adequate system of transportation with an opportunity so to adjust freight rates as to meet such temporary conditions as now prevail in some agricultural sections.
Sentence 159: Competent authorities agree that an entire reorganization of the rate structure for freight is necessary.
Sentence 160: This should be ordered at once by the Congress.
Sentence 161: DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Sentence 162: As no revision of the laws of the United States has been made since 1878, a commission or committee should be created to undertake this work.
Sentence 163: The Judicial Council reports that two more district judges are needed in the southern district of New York, one in the northern district of Georgia, and two more circuit judges in the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit.
Sentence 164: Legislation should be considered for this purpose.
Sentence 165: It is desirable to expedite the hearing and disposal of cases.
Sentence 166: A commission of Federal judges and lawyers should be created to recommend legislation by which the procedure in the Federal trial courts may be simplified and regulated by rules of court, rather than by statute; such rules to be submitted to the Congress and to be in force until annulled or modified by the Congress.
Sentence 167: The Supreme Court needs legislation revising and simplifying the laws governing review by that court, and enlarging the classes of cases of too little public importance to be subject to review.
Sentence 168: Such reforms would expedite the transaction of the business of the courts.
Sentence 169: The administration of justice is likely to fail if it be long delayed.
Sentence 170: The National Government has never given adequate attention to its prison problems.
Sentence 171: It ought to provide employment in such forms of production as can be used by the Government, though not sold to the public in competition with private business, for all prisoners who can be placed at work, and for which they should receive a reasonable compensation, available for their dependents.
Sentence 172: Two independent reformatories are needed; one for the segregation of women, and another for the segregation of young men serving their first sentence.
Sentence 173: The administration of justice would be facilitated greatly by including in the Bureau of Investigation of the Department of Justice a Division of Criminal Identification, where there would be collected this information which is now indispensable in the suppression of crime.
Sentence 174: PROHIBITION
The prohibition amendment to the Constitution requires the Congress.
Sentence 175: and the President to provide adequate laws to prevent its violation.
Sentence 176: It is my duty to enforce such laws.
Sentence 177: For that purpose a treaty is being negotiated with Great Britain with respect to the right of search of hovering vessels.
Sentence 178: To prevent smuggling, the Coast Card should be greatly strengthened, and a supply of swift power boats should be provided.
Sentence 179: The major sources of production should be rigidly regulated, and every effort should be made to suppress interstate traffic.
Sentence 180: With this action on the part of the National Government, and the cooperation which is usually rendered by municipal and State authorities, prohibition should be made effective.
Sentence 181: Free government has no greater menace than disrespect for authority and continual violation of law.
Sentence 182: It is the duty of a citizen not only to observe the law but to let it be known that he is opposed to its violation.
Sentence 183: THE NEGRO
Numbered among our population are some 12,000,000 colored people.
Sentence 184: Under our Constitution their rights are just as sacred as those of any other citizen.
Sentence 185: It is both a public and a private duty to protect those rights.
Sentence 186: The Congress ought to exercise all its powers of prevention and punishment against the hideous crime of lynching, of which the negroes are by no means the sole sufferers, but for which they furnish a majority of the victims.
Sentence 187: Already a considerable sum is appropriated to give the negroes vocational training in agriculture.
Sentence 188: About half a million dollars is recommended for medical courses at Howard University to help contribute to the education of 500 colored doctors needed each year.
Sentence 189: On account of the integration of large numbers into industrial centers, it has been proposed that a commission be created, composed of members from both races, to formulate a better policy for mutual understanding and confidence.
Sentence 190: Such an effort is to be commended.
Sentence 191: Everyone would rejoice in the accomplishment of the results which it seeks.
Sentence 192: But it is well to recognize that these difficulties are to a large extent local problems which must be worked out by the mutual forbearance and human kindness of each community.
Sentence 193: Such a method gives much more promise of a real remedy than outside interference.
Sentence 194: CIVIL SERVICE
Sentence 195: The maintenance and extension of the classified civil service is exceedingly important.
Sentence 196: There are nearly 550,000 persons in the executive civil service drawing about $700,000,000 of yearly compensation.
Sentence 197: Four-fifths of these are in the classified service.
Sentence 198: This method of selection of the employees of the United States is especially desirable for the Post Office Department.
Sentence 199: The Civil Service Commission has recommended that postmasters at first, second, and third class offices be classified.
Sentence 200: Such action, accompanied by a repeal of the four-year term of office, would undoubtedly be an improvement.
Sentence 201: I also recommend that the field force for prohibition enforcement be brought within the classified civil service without covering in the present membership.
Sentence 202: The best method for selecting public servants is the merit system.
Sentence 203: PUBLIC BUILDINGS
Many of the departments in Washington need better housing facilities.
Sentence 204: Some are so crowded that their work is impeded, others are so scattered that they lose their identity.
Sentence 205: While I do not favor at this time a general public building law, I believe it is now necessary, in accordance with plans already sanctioned for a unified and orderly system for the development of this city, to begin the carrying out of those plans by authorizing the erection of three or four buildings most urgently needed by an annual appropriation of $5,000,000.
Sentence 206: REGULATORY LEGISLATION
Cooperation with other maritime powers is necessary for complete protection of our coast waters from. pollution.
Sentence 207: Plans for this are under way, but await certain experiments for refuse disposal.
Sentence 208: Meantime laws prohibiting spreading oil and oil refuse from vessels in our own territorial waters would be most helpful against this menace and should be speedily enacted.
Sentence 209: Laws should be passed regulating aviation.
Sentence 210: Revision is needed of the laws regulating radio interference.
Sentence 211: Legislation and regulations establishing load lines, to provide safe loading of vessels leaving our ports are necessary and recodification of our navigation laws is vital.
Sentence 212: Revision of procedure of the Federal Trade Commission will give more constructive purpose to this department.
Sentence 213: If our Alaskan fisheries are to be saved from destruction, there must be further legislation declaring a general policy and delegating the authority to make rules and regulations to an administrative body.
Sentence 214: ARMY AND NAVY
For several years we have been decreasing the personnel of the Army and Navy, and reducing their power to the danger point.
Sentence 215: Further reductions should not be made.
Sentence 216: The Army is a guarantee of the security of our citizens at home; the Navy is a guarantee of the security of our citizens abroad.
Sentence 217: Both of these services should be strengthened rather than weakened.
Sentence 218: Additional planes are needed for the Army, and additional submarines for the Navy.
Sentence 219: The defenses of Panama must be perfected.
Sentence 220: We want no more competitive armaments.
Sentence 221: We want no more war.
Sentence 222: But we want no weakness that invites imposition.
Sentence 223: A people who neglect their national defense are putting in jeopardy their national honor.
Sentence 224: INSULAR POSSESSIONS
Conditions in the insular possessions on the whole have been good.
Sentence 225: Their business has been reviving.
Sentence 226: They are being administered according to law.
Sentence 227: That effort has the full support of the administration.
Sentence 228: Such recommendations as may conic from their people or their governments should have the most considerate attention.
Sentence 229: EDUCATION AND WELFARE
Our National Government is not doing as much as it legitimately can do to promote the welfare of the people.
Sentence 230: Our enormous material wealth, our institutions, our whole form of society, can not be considered fully successful until their benefits reach the merit of every individual.
Sentence 231: This is not a suggestion that the Government should, or could, assume for the people the inevitable burdens of existence.
Sentence 232: There is no method by which we can either be relieved of the results of our own folly or be guaranteed a successful life.
Sentence 233: There is an inescapable personal responsibility for the development of character, of industry, of thrift, and of self-control.
Sentence 234: These do not come from the Government, but from the people themselves.
Sentence 235: But the Government can and should always be expressive of steadfast determination, always vigilant, to maintain conditions under which these virtues are most likely to develop and secure recognition and reward.
Sentence 236: This is the American policy.
Sentence 237: It is in accordance with this principle that we have enacted laws for the protection of the public health and have adopted prohibition in narcotic drugs and intoxicating liquors.
Sentence 238: For purposes of national uniformity we ought to provide, by constitutional amendment and appropriate legislation, for a limitation of child labor, and in all cases under the exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal Government a minimum wage law for women, which would undoubtedly find sufficient power of enforcement in the influence of public opinion.
Sentence 239: Having in mind that education is peculiarly a local problem, and that it should always be pursued with the largest freedom of choice by students and parents, nevertheless, the Federal Government might well give the benefit of its counsel and encouragement more freely in this direction.
Sentence 240: If anyone doubts the need of concerted action by the States of the Nation for this purpose, it is only necessary to consider the appalling figures of illiteracy representing a condition which does not vary much in all parts of the Union.
Sentence 241: I do not favor the making of appropriations from the National Treasury to be expended directly on local education, but I do consider it a fundamental requirement of national activity which, accompanied by allied subjects of welfare, is worthy of a separate department and a place in the Cabinet.
Sentence 242: The humanitarian side of government should not be repressed, but should be cultivated.
Sentence 243: Mere intelligence, however, is not enough.
Sentence 244: Enlightenment must be accompanied by that moral power which is the product of the home and of rebellion.
Sentence 245: Real education and true welfare for the people rest inevitably on this foundation, which the Government can approve and commend, but which the people themselves must create.
Sentence 246: IMMIGRATION
American institutions rest solely on good citizenship.
Sentence 247: They were created by people who had a background of self-government.
Sentence 248: New arrivals should be limited to our capacity to absorb them into the ranks of good citizenship.
Sentence 249: America must be kept American.
Sentence 250: For this I purpose, it is necessary to continue a policy of restricted immigration.
Sentence 251: It would be well to make such immigration of a selective nature with some inspection at the source, and based either on a prior census or upon the record of naturalization.
Sentence 252: Either method would insure the admission of those with the largest capacity and best intention of becoming citizens.
Sentence 253: I am convinced that our present economic and social conditions warrant a limitation of those to be admitted.
Sentence 254: We should find additional safety in a law requiring the immediate registration of all aliens.
Sentence 255: Those who do not want to be partakers of the American spirit ought not to settle in America.
Sentence 256: VETERANS
No more important duty falls on the Government of the United States than the adequate care of its veterans.
Sentence 257: Those suffering disabilities incurred in the service must have sufficient hospital relief and compensation.
Sentence 258: Their dependents must be supported.
Sentence 259: Rehabilitation and vocational training must be completed.
Sentence 260: All of this service must be clean, must be prompt and effective, and it must be administered in a spirit of the broadest and deepest human sympathy.
Sentence 261: If investigation reveals any present defects of administration or need of legislation, orders will be given for the immediate correction of administration, and recommendations for legislation should be given the highest preference.
Sentence 262: At present there are 9,500 vacant beds in Government hospitals, I recommend that all hospitals be authorized at once to receive and care for, without hospital pay, the veterans of all wars needing such care, whenever there are vacant beds, and that immediate steps be taken to enlarge and build new hospitals to serve all such cases.
Sentence 263: The American Legion will present to the Congress a legislative program too extensive for detailed discussion here.
Sentence 264: It is a carefully matured plan.
Sentence 265: While some of it I do not favor, with much of it I am in hearty accord, and I recommend that a most painstaking effort be made to provide remedies for any defects in the administration of the present laws which their experience has revealed.
Sentence 266: The attitude of the Government toward these proposals should be one of generosity.
Sentence 267: But I do not favor the granting of a bonus.
Sentence 268: COAL
The cost of coal has become unbearably high.
Sentence 269: It places a great burden on our industrial and domestic life.
Sentence 270: The public welfare requires a reduction in the price of fuel.
Sentence 271: With the enormous deposits in existence, failure of supply ought not to be tolerated.
Sentence 272: Those responsible for the conditions in this industry should undertake its reform and free it from any charge of profiteering
The report of the Coal Commission will be before the Congress.
Sentence 273: It comprises all the facts.
Sentence 274: It represents the mature deliberations and conclusions of the best talent and experience that ever made a national survey of the production and distribution of fuel.
Sentence 275: I do not favor Government ownership or operation of coal mines.
Sentence 276: The need is for action under private ownership that will secure greater continuity of production and greater public protection.
Sentence 277: The Federal Government probably has no peacetime authority to regulate wages, prices, or profits in coal at the mines or among dealers, but by ascertaining and publishing facts it can exercise great influence.
Sentence 278: The source of the difficulty in the bituminous coal fields is the intermittence of operation which causes great waste of both capital and labor.
Sentence 279: That part of the report dealing with this problem has much significance, and is suggestive of necessary remedies.
Sentence 280: By amending, the car rules, by encouraging greater unity of ownership, and possibly by permitting common selling agents for limited districts on condition that they accept adequate regulations and guarantee that competition between districts be unlimited, distribution, storage, and continuity ought to be improved.
Sentence 281: The supply of coal must be constant.
Sentence 282: In case of its prospective interruption, the President should have authority to appoint a commission empowered to deal with whatever emergency situation might arise, to aid conciliation and voluntary arbitration, to adjust any existing or threatened controversy between the employer and the employee when collective bargaining fails, and by controlling distribution to prevent profiteering in this vital necessity.
Sentence 283: This legislation is exceedingly urgent, and essential to the exercise of national authority for the protection of the people.
Sentence 284: Those who undertake the responsibility of management or employment in this industry do so with the full knowledge that the public interest is paramount, and that to fail through any motive of selfishness in its service is such a betrayal of duty as warrants uncompromising action by the Government.
Sentence 285: REORGANIZATION
Sentence 286: A special joint committee has been appointed to work out a plan for a reorganization of the different departments and bureaus of the Government more scientific and economical than the present system.
Sentence 287: With the exception of the consolidation of the War and Navy Departments and some minor details, the plan has the general sanction of the President and the Cabinet.
Sentence 288: It is important that reorganization be enacted into law at the present session.
Sentence 289: AGRICULTURE
Aided by the sound principles adopted by the Government, the business of the country has had an extraordinary revival.
Sentence 290: Looked at as a whole, the Nation is in the enjoyment of remarkable prosperity.
Sentence 291: Industry and commerce are thriving.
Sentence 292: For the most part agriculture is successful, eleven staples having risen in value from about $5,300,000,000 two years ago to about.
Sentence 293: $7,000,000,000 for the current year.
Sentence 294: But range cattle are still low in price, and some sections of the wheat area, notably Minnesota, North Dakota, and on west, have many cases of actual distress.
Sentence 295: With his products not selling on a parity with the products of industry, every sound remedy that can be devised should be applied for the relief of the farmer.
Sentence 296: He represents a character, a type of citizenship, and a public necessity that must be preserved and afforded every facility for regaining prosperity.
Sentence 297: The distress is most acute among those wholly dependent upon one crop..
Sentence 298: Wheat acreage was greatly expanded and has not yet been sufficiently reduced.
Sentence 299: A large amount is raised for export, which has to meet the competition in the world market of large amounts raised on land much cheaper and much more productive.
Sentence 300: No complicated scheme of relief, no plan for Government fixing of prices, no resort to the public Treasury will be of any permanent value in establishing agriculture.
Sentence 301: Simple and direct methods put into operation by the farmer himself are the only real sources for restoration.
Sentence 302: Indirectly the farmer must be relieved by a reduction of national and local taxation.
Sentence 303: He must be assisted by the reorganization of the freight-rate structure which could reduce charges on his production.
Sentence 304: To make this fully effective there ought to be railroad consolidations.
Sentence 305: Cheaper fertilizers must be provided.
Sentence 306: He must have organization.
Sentence 307: His customer with whom he exchanges products of the farm for those of industry is organized, labor is organized, business is organized, and there is no way for agriculture to meet this unless it, too, is organized.
Sentence 308: The acreage of wheat is too large.
Sentence 309: Unless we can meet the world market at a profit, we must stop raising for export.
Sentence 310: Organization would help to reduce acreage.
Sentence 311: Systems of cooperative marketing created by the farmers themselves, supervised by competent management, without doubt would be of assistance, but, they can not wholly solve the problem.'
Sentence 312: Our agricultural schools ought to have thorough courses in the theory of organization and cooperative marketing.
Sentence 313: Diversification is necessary.
Sentence 314: Those farmers who raise their living on their land are not greatly in distress.
Sentence 315: Such loans as are wisely needed to assist buying stock and other materials to start in this direction should be financed through a Government agency as a temporary and emergency expedient.
Sentence 316: The remaining difficulty is the disposition of exportable wheat.
Sentence 317: I do not favor the permanent interference of the Government in this problem.
Sentence 318: That probably would increase the trouble by increasing production.
Sentence 319: But it seems feasible to provide Government assistance to exports, and authority should be given the War Finance Corporation to grant, in its discretion, the most liberal terms of payment for fats and grains exported for the direct benefit of the farm.
Sentence 320: MUSCLE SHOALS
Sentence 321: The Government is undertaking to develop a great water-power project known as Muscle Shoals, on which it has expended many million dollars.
Sentence 322: The work is still going on.
Sentence 323: Subject to the right to retake in time of war, I recommend that this property with a location for auxiliary steam plant and rights of way be sold.
Sentence 324: This would end the present burden of expense and should return to the Treasury the largest price possible to secure.
Sentence 325: While the price is an important element, there is another consideration even more compelling.
Sentence 326: The agriculture of the Nation needs a greater supply and lower cost of fertilizer.
Sentence 327: This is now imported in large quantities.
Sentence 328: The best information I can secure indicates that present methods of power production would not be able profitably to meet the price at which these imports can be sold.
Sentence 329: To obtain a supply from this water power would require long and costly experimentation to perfect a process for cheap production.
Sentence 330: Otherwise our purpose would fail completely.
Sentence 331: It seems desirable, therefore, in order to protect and promote the public welfare, to have adequate covenants that such experimentation be made and carried on to success.
Sentence 332: The great advantage of low-priced nitrates must be secured for the direct benefit of the farmers and the indirect benefit of the public in time of peace, and of the Government in time of war.
Sentence 333: If this main object be accomplished, the amount of money received for the property is not a primary or major consideration.
Sentence 334: Such a solution will involve complicated negotiations, and there is no authority for that purpose.
Sentence 335: therefore recommend that the Congress appoint a small joint committee to consider offers, conduct negotiations, and report definite recommendations.
Sentence 336: RECLAMATION
By reason of many contributing causes, occupants of our reclamation projects are in financial difficulties, which in some cases are acute.
Sentence 337: Relief should be granted by definite authority of law empowering the Secretary of the Interior in.
Sentence 338: his discretion to suspend, readjust, and reassess all charges against water users.
Sentence 339: This whole question is being considered by experts.
Sentence 340: You will have the advantage of the facts and conclusions which they may develop.
Sentence 341: This situation, involving a Government investment of more than $135,000,000, and affecting more than 30,000 water users, is serious.
Sentence 342: While relief which is necessary should be granted, yet contracts with the Government which can be met should be met.
Sentence 343: The established general policy of these projects should not be abandoned for any private control.
Sentence 344: HIGHWAYS AND FORESTS
Highways and reforestation should continue to have the interest and support of the Government.
Sentence 345: Everyone is anxious for good highways.
Sentence 346: I have made a liberal proposal in the Budget for the continuing payment to the States by the Federal Government of its share for this necessary public improvement.
Sentence 347: No expenditure of public money contributes so much to the national wealth as for building good roads.
Sentence 348: Reforestation has an importance far above the attention it usually secures.
Sentence 349: A special committee of the Senate is investigating this need, and I shall welcome a constructive policy based on their report.
Sentence 350: It is 100 years since our country announced the Monroe doctrine.
Sentence 351: This principle has been ever since, and is now, one of the main foundations of our foreign relations.
Sentence 352: It must be maintained.
Sentence 353: But in maintaining it we must not be forgetful that a great change has taken place.
Sentence 354: We are no longer a weak Nation, thinking mainly of defense, dreading foreign imposition.
Sentence 355: We are great and powerful.
Sentence 356: New powers bring new responsibilities.
Sentence 357: Our duty then was to protect ourselves.
Sentence 358: Added to that, our duty now is to help give stability to the world.
Sentence 359: We want idealism.
Sentence 360: We want that vision which lifts men and nations above themselves.
Sentence 361: These are virtues by reason of their own merit.
Sentence 362: But they must not be cloistered; they must not be impractical; they must not be ineffective.
Sentence 363: The world has had enough of the curse of hatred and selfishness, of destruction and war.
Sentence 364: It has had enough of the wrongful use of material power.
Sentence 365: For the healing of the nations there must be good will and charity, confidence and peace.
Sentence 366: The time has come for a more practical use of moral power, and more reliance upon the principle that right makes its own might.
Sentence 367: Our authority among the nations must be represented by justice and mercy.
Sentence 368: It is necessary not only to have faith, but to make sacrifices for our faith.
Sentence 369: The spiritual forces of the world make all its final determinations.
Sentence 370: It is with these voices that America should speak.
Sentence 371: Whenever they declare a righteous purpose there need be no doubt that they will be heard.
Sentence 372: America has taken her place in the world as a Republic--free, independent, powerful.
Sentence 373: The best service that can be rendered to humanity is the assurance that this place will be maintained.
