Sentence 1: 1928 Address Gettysburg Battlefield

My Fellow Americans:
This returning Decoration Day brings our entire Nation in reverence and respect to the graves of our departed soldiers.
Sentence 2: Each year their number has increased, as that long blue line which stood so valiantly for the cause of the Union has grown thinner and thinner, until to-day it has almost vanished from earthly view.
Sentence 3: On Fame's eternal camping-ground
Their silent tents are spread,
And Glory guards with solemn round
The bivouac of the dead.
Sentence 4: We do not come to lament, but to give thanks.
Sentence 5: With one acclaim the people bestow upon them all that divine salutation, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant.
Sentence 6: "
To express our devotion we have come to the field of Gettysburg.
Sentence 7: It ranks as one of the great historic battle grounds of this continent.
Sentence 8: In the magnitude of its importance it compares with the Plains of Abraham, with Saratoga, and with Yorktown.
Sentence 9: It is associated with a great battle between the Union and Confederate forces and with one of the greatest addresses ever delivered by one of the greatest men ever in the world, Abraham Lincoln.
Sentence 10: The respect in which the United States holds its service men is indicated by something more substantial than lip service.
Sentence 11: Between $6,000,000,000 and $7,000,000,000 have gone out of the United States Treasury in pensions and gratuities to those who fought in that war which reached its crest upon this hard-fought field.
Sentence 12: These payments are still going on at the rate of about $200,000,000 each year.
Sentence 13: To the account of those who took part in the World War, for benefits and compensations in the short period of 10 years since its close already there has been set aside almost $5,000,000,000, and payments are going on at the rate of about $560,000,000 each year.
Sentence 14: Our people do something more for their service men and their dependents besides giving them a kind word while they live and placing a wreath on their last resting place when they are gone.
Sentence 15: All the countries on earth in all their history, all put together, have not done as much for those who have fought in their behalf as our country alone had done in the past 50 years.
Sentence 16: Our appreciation and our devotion is evidenced by something more than tributes and monuments and yearly assemblages devoted to their praise.
Sentence 17: While making these tremendous expenditures for the benefit of those who have seen military service, our country at the same time is making outlays in excess of those ever before made in time of peace for the purpose of national defense.
Sentence 18: Yet our military force is exceedingly moderate, our standing Army is small, our National Guard and Reserve represent little more than a supplementary police force, when we consider our great area at home and our obligations in our outlying possessions.
Sentence 19: Our naval force necessary for the protection of our commerce, which is world-wide and not exceeded in importance by that of any other country, while of very respectable proportions, needs to be strengthened in cruisers and other auxiliary craft.
Sentence 20: Such construction is already under way and plans are maturing for the necessary increases.
Sentence 21: Our air forces are being steadily improved and enlarged.
Sentence 22: While we are maintaining these moderate forces, we are especially anxious for the world to know that they are purely for defensive purposes and to promote general peace and tranquility.
Sentence 23: No other nation has anything which we would think of taking by force.
Sentence 24: Our restrictive immigration law is a declaration of national policy against the acquisition of the territory of any foreign people.
Sentence 25: Though we have at this time some of our forces in Haiti, Nicaragua, and China, they are in none of these places for the purpose of making war, but for the purpose of insuring peaceful conditions under which the rights of our nationals and their property may receive that protection to which they are entitled under the terms of international law.
Sentence 26: Our further purpose in Haiti and Nicaragua is to assist the peoples and governments of those two countries in establishing stability, in maintaining orderly and peaceful institutions in harmony with civilized society.
Sentence 27: We are there at their express invitation and in accordance with explicit agreements.
Sentence 28: The world-wide interests of the United States aside from the dictates of humanity make us view with peculiar disfavor not only any danger of being involved in war ourselves, but any danger of war among other nations.
Sentence 29: Our investments and trade relations are such that it is almost impossible to conceive of any conflict anywhere on earth which would not affect us injuriously.
Sentence 30: The one thing that we want above all else for ourselves and for other nations is a continuance of peace.
Sentence 31: Whether so intended or not, any nations engaging in war would thereby necessarily be engaged in a course prejudicial to us.
Sentence 32: The strength of this Nation, however, is not expressed merely in terms of an Army and Navy.
Sentence 33: A yet greater power is derived from the happiness and contentment of the people.
Sentence 34: During recent years this has been our national position to a greater extent than ever experienced by any other people.
Sentence 35: A realization of the benefits derived from our political and economic institutions naturally results in patriotic devotion.
Sentence 36: The efforts made to establish a government free from tyranny, in which the fullest freedom consistent with order and justice would be granted, and where opportunity would be open and industry attended with the largest rewards, all have an important bearing on the subject of national defense.
Sentence 37: But to the contentment and patriotism of the people there must be added the resources that are derived from prosperous industry, agriculture, and commerce.
Sentence 38: Good credit, which is derived from sound financial conditions, is the principal foundation of national defense.
Sentence 39: That country which has so ordered its finances as to be in a position to furnish the largest amount of money will always be in the best position to protect itself.
Sentence 40: Reduction of our national debt, permitting a reduction of taxes which stimulates private enterprise and increases our credit, is an important addition to our national strength.
Sentence 41: The industrial advance, the agricultural development, the financial resources, strengthened by wise policies in time of peace, are of inestimable value in time of war.
Sentence 42: A people which gives itself over to great armaments and military display runs great danger of creating within itself a quarrelsome war spirit.
Sentence 43: But these other elements of power, although their importance is usually ignored, by contributing to the happiness and contentment of the people, are important influences for peace.
Sentence 44: Those who seek for vast military establishments, requiring enormous expenditures of money, are not necessarily contributing so much to national defense as those who would apply more of our revenue to the payment of our debt and a corresponding reduction of our taxes, which would be reflected in increased prosperity.
Sentence 45: With this method of preparedness, the more peaceful we become.
Sentence 46: It can be said of our country that in all its history it has never made preparations to attack any other country.
Sentence 47: Whenever it has been engaged in conflict it has entered it in such a state of unpreparedness as to demonstrate that it was not sought or even expected.
Sentence 48: While others have felt that they were forced to prepare for war, our situation has been such that we have always been preparing for peace.
Sentence 49: It is our theory that while the Army and Navy are an important and necessary part, they are by no means the only agency of national security.
Sentence 50: We know that there are time when race antagonisms and national animosities break out in the world in the most unexpected way.
Sentence 51: At other times, all nations are subjected to more or less domestic tumult.
Sentence 52: In such cases, the presence of adequate armed forces is the only practical method of protection for life and property.
Sentence 53: But the world has advanced far enough now in civilization and experience, so that a great conflict is not likely to arise so much from design as from accident.
Sentence 54: It is realized that war can not be profitable.
Sentence 55: The trend of civilization is undoubtedly toward peace.
Sentence 56: The reason for this is not far to seek.
Sentence 57: War means the application of force.
Sentence 58: Peace means the application of reason.
Sentence 59: War is complete lawlessness.
Sentence 60: Peace is the rule of law.
Sentence 61: The principal effort of civilization, after all, is to bring the world under obedience to law.
Sentence 62: The great conflict which raged upon this battle field had for its ultimate decision the question of whether the power of the sword or the power of the Constitution was to be supreme.
Sentence 63: Under republican institutions an industrious and law-abiding people will make a peaceful nation, while a lawless and riotous people will make a warlike nation.
Sentence 64: Like many other of our problems, the solution runs back to the individual and the home.
Sentence 65: If around the Nation's fireside respect for authority, reverence for holy things, and obedience to parental discipline are taught, the surest foundation for peace will be laid.
Sentence 66: Where these home influences are lacking, the danger of conflict increases.
Sentence 67: While the people of the United States as a whole are peaceful and law-abiding to a remarkable degree, it can not be denied that we have had sporadic outbreaks of crime, especially those of violence, which are exceedingly disturbing.
Sentence 68: Such a condition will indicate, if continued, a loosening of the moral fiber of the Nation.
Sentence 69: It is very easy to cast the blame upon the police authorities, the prosecuting officers, and the courts.
Sentence 70: But if a criminal condition continues to prevail, the blame goes beyond these officials.
Sentence 71: We live under a system of popular government.
Sentence 72: Our officers reflect to a very large degree public opinion.
Sentence 73: If the people themselves show that they are determined to have crime stamped out, there will be no lack of vigilance on the part of the police, no lack of energetic action on the part of prosecuting attorneys, and no lack of adequate penalty on the part of the courts.
Sentence 74: If the people are careless and indifferent, if they look with complacency on crime and assume a sentimental attitude toward criminals, little reform can be hoped for.
Sentence 75: If, on the other hand, the people remember that good government only can be secured by the exercise of eternal vigilance, that it is necessary constantly to resist, evil tendencies, if they will take such action as is necessary to give adequate expression to their determination to terminate lawlessness and crime, it can be done.
Sentence 76: For the purpose of promoting a reign of law in the world there is a special obligation resting upon all public officials.
Sentence 77: In our own country, and in most others, the government is one of limited powers.
Sentence 78: The purpose, as has been so well expressed, is to provide a government of law and not of men.
Sentence 79: The great majority of offices are those created by statute.
Sentence 80: Those who fill such places should be alert to ascertain the powers with which they have been invested and scrupulous to observe the law under which they have been appointed.
Sentence 81: But in addition to these there is a considerable body, executive, legislative, and judicial in its functions, which derive their authority directly from constitutional sources.
Sentence 82: None of these are all-powerful, but are held within strict limits.
Sentence 83: They have all come into existence because the people have decreed by their constitutions that they should be clothed with certain limited authority.
Sentence 84: The chief temptations to go beyond the bounds which the people have set arise in legislatures.
Sentence 85: In their desire to take some action which they conceive to be in the public interest, they oftentimes manifest a disposition to exceed their constitutional authority.
Sentence 86: Such action is a larceny of power.
Sentence 87: Responsibility for it can not be evaded by the weak plea to let the law be passed and the courts can decide its constitutionality.
Sentence 88: Legislators are required to qualify upon their solemn oath.
Sentence 89: That oath is not that they will leave the courts to defend and support the Constitution, but that they themselves will defend and support it.
Sentence 90: When additional authority is required, they should apply to the people to amend the Constitution, and not attempt to evade it or strain it by subterfuge and misconception.
Sentence 91: The same necessity for being law-abiding at home applies to our citizens when they are abroad.
Sentence 92: Our people are granted free access on the same basis as others into all the countries of the world.
Sentence 93: As a general policy they go with the encouragement of our Government to engage in all kinds of enterprise.
Sentence 94: But when once they have set foot in foreign land, it is their duty to render obedience to the domestic and international law which is applicable to their proposed actions.
Sentence 95: Our Government necessarily has rights over its citizens and their property in whatever country they may be.
Sentence 96: While we do not and can not undertake to interfere in the application of domestic law to our nationals, unless it contravenes the rights of our Government and people under international law, nevertheless the carelessness of some of our citizens abroad in violating domestic law and in assuming an arrogant attitude toward the local inhabitants tends to bring our country into disrepute and endangers the continuance of of friendly relations.
Sentence 97: A Government of the United States that failed in its duty to protect the lives and property of its citizens would be justly condemned at home and covered with derision abroad.
Sentence 98: But our citizens ought to remember that it is their duty so to conduct themselves in their relations with foreign interest that they are worthy of whatever protection they may need from their home Government.
Sentence 99: Obedience to international law, however,is a reciprocal duty.
Sentence 100: It is necessary not only that we scrupulously observe it ourselves, but that it be known that we shall require such observance from others.
Sentence 101: When we make agreements with other nations we must see that they are performed.
Sentence 102: If they are ever to be abrogated, it must be only in accordance with their terms.
Sentence 103: For us to insist at all times and places on the observance of international law is to strengthen the main foundation of peace.
Sentence 104: By our influence and by our example we can do much to discourage all acts of international lawlessness.
Sentence 105: After all, peace is a spiritual attainment.
Sentence 106: We can set up material safeguards like fortifications and armaments, which will afford us much protection against attack, but unless we cultivate and cherish sentiments of friendship and understanding they are no guaranty of peace.
Sentence 107: One method of arriving at a better state of understanding, so that friendship may be preserved, is to provide before the event for methods of negotiating and adjudicating matters in dispute.
Sentence 108: In furtherance of the plan of this Government to settle international controversies by pacific means and thereby lessen the cause of war, the United States is now negotiating new arbitration treaties and additional conciliation treaties with the principal nations of the world.
Sentence 109: The Pan American Conference which met at Habana in January, 1928, passed a resolution calling a conference of all the American States to meet in Washington within a year to draft treaties of arbitration and conciliation.
Sentence 110: For that purpose, such a conference probably will be held in Washington the latter part of this year.
Sentence 111: The peace of the world can not, of course, be obtained by any one single act, but every treaty of arbitration and conciliation and every agreement against resorting to war adds another barrier against those conflicts which from time to time have recurred in the history of nations, and it is the hope of mankind that these repeated steps may in time establish a mode of thought and a custom of action that will do much to prevent war.
Sentence 112: As is well known, we are also engaged in conversations with different powers for putting peace on a new basis and making it still more permanent.
Sentence 113: In June, 1927, M. Briand, the French Minister of Foreign Affairs, made an historic proposal to this Government.
Sentence 114: He suggested that France and the United States sign a treaty condemning recourse to war and renouncing it as an instrument of national policy in their mutual relations.
Sentence 115: During the 11 months that have since elapsed, this suggestion has been developed into one of the most impressive peace movements that the world has ever seen.
Sentence 116: The United States has accepted the principle underlying M. Briand's suggestion and has advocated its extension so as to include within the scope of the proposed treaty not only France and the United States, but also Great Britain, Germany, Italy, and Japan, and any other nations of the world that might care to join with these six powers in a common renunciation of war.
Sentence 117: In order to facilitate discussion and to demonstrate that a treaty such as that desired by the United States could be short, simple, and straightforward, Mr. Kellogg, Secretary of State, submitted on April 13, 1928, for the consideration of the other interested powers, a preliminary draft of a treaty representing in a general way the form of treaty which he suggested we were prepared to conclude.
Sentence 118: This draft treaty has met with very favorable reception.
Sentence 119: Not only has the idea of a multilateral treaty for the renunciation of war been indorsed by public opinion here and abroad but the governments themselves have approached the matter with an interest and a sympathy which is most encouraging.
Sentence 120: We have gathered to pay tribute to our soldier dead.
Sentence 121: This day is consecrated to their memory.
Sentence 122: It seems to me that the greatest honor that we can do to those who have died on the field of battle that this Republic might live is soberly to pledge ourselves to bend our every effort to prevent any recurrence of war.
Sentence 123: The government of the people, by the people, for the people, which Lincoln described in his immortal address, is a government of peace, not of war, and our dead will not have died in vain if, inspired by their sacrifice, we endeavor by every means within our power to prevent the shedding of human blood in the attempted settlement of international controversies.
Sentence 124: It is my earnest hope that success may crown the negotiations now in progress, and that the ideals which have inspired the French Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State of the United States in their joint efforts to find a solution of the problem of peace may find a practical realization in the early making of a multilateral treaty limiting future resort to war.
