Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 825

RESIGNATION OF WILLIAM P. MACCRACKEN, JR.
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: Well, I am afraid this is a famine day.
Sentence 3: I have only two questions for you this morning, one of which I am not prepared to deal with until later in the week.
Sentence 4: The other relates to Mr.MacCracken 1 as to when he may retire and who his successor will be.
Sentence 5: Mr. MacCracken probably will retire in a couple of months, and there has been no consideration of his successor yet.
Sentence 6: We are trying to hold on to Mr. MacCracken.
Sentence 7: 1 William P. MacCracken Jr., was Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Aviation.
Sentence 8: JUDICIAL APPOINTMENTS
The list of appointments sent up this morning did not contain the names of any of the judges.
Sentence 9: Those will be going up tomorrow.
Sentence 10: We want to fill one or two more.
Sentence 11: Q. Will that be the full list of judges ?
Sentence 12: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 13: There are two or three that I don't think we will have settled, but all the major appointments.
Sentence 14: Q. Mr. President, will that include all New Yorkers?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 15: No, I am not certain.
Sentence 16: There are five.
Sentence 17: There is no successor to Winslow2--that is one of the determinable judges under the legislation on which the appointment was made.
Sentence 18: But in any event we will send up four of the New Yorkers out of the five.
Sentence 19: We may send them all
Sentence 20: but I am not quite certain.
Sentence 21: 2 Francis Asbury Winslow was U.S. District Judge, Southern District of New York.
Sentence 22: APPOINTMENT OF CHARLES J. RHOADS
Mr. Rhoads has accepted the appointment as chief of the Indian Bureau, which I think is rather a notable case of public service from a man who makes a very large sacrifice to leave one of the most important posts a man can have in his local community to take over a bureau in Washington.
Sentence 23: Other than that, I have nothing.
