Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 842

MEETING WITH RAILWAY EXECUTIVES
Sentence 2: [George Akerson opened the news conference by reading a statement for the President on the President's conference with railway executives, held earlier on the same day.
Sentence 3: See Item 281 note.
Sentence 4: ]
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 5: That will be given to you mimeographed.
Sentence 6: There is something in the background of this that I would like to talk to you about, and not for publication or anything of that character.
Sentence 7: THE ECONOMY AND PUBLIC CONFIDENCE
We are dealing here with a psychological situation to a very considerable degree.
Sentence 8: It is a question of fear.
Sentence 9: We have had a collapse in the stock market, out of which a good many people have lost money, and a lot of people who could not afford to, and a lot of unfortunate people have been brought in, the effect of which in the American mind creates an undue state of alarm, because our national thinking naturally goes back to previous occasions when events of that character have had a very considerable bearing upon the business situation, and in its final interpretation it is employment.
Sentence 10: Now, a great many people lifted their standards of living, and naturally the effect of such a thing tends to decrease consumption particularly for luxury and semi-luxury, and those trades are no doubt still affected.
Sentence 11: But this occasion so far differs from all others in that the credit situation in the country is entirely isolated from it due to the Federal Reserve and the banks, and there is no credit consideration involved.
Sentence 12: But the natural recovery of increased interest rates by the withdrawal of capital from speculative securities takes that capital ultimately back into industry and commerce.
Sentence 13: It is ordinarily the tendency of industrial leaders and everyone else to sit back to see what happens and to be a little more cautious in his business than he might otherwise have been that we have to deal with.
Sentence 14: We have also to deal naturally with some unemployment in the semi-necessity trades.
Sentence 15: But the real problem and the interpretation of it is one of maintenance of employment.
Sentence 16: This is not a question of bolstering stock markets or stock prices or anything of that kind.
Sentence 17: We are dealing with the vital question of maintaining employment in the United States and consequently the comfort and standard of living of the people and their ability to buy goods and proceed in the normal course of their lives.
Sentence 18: So that the purpose of this movement is to disabuse the public mind of the notion that there has been any serious or vital interruption in our economic system, and that it is going to proceed in the ordinary, normal manner, and to get that impression over not by preachment and talks but by definite and positive acts on the part of industry and business and [p.388] the Government and others.
Sentence 19: As I said before, I do not believe that words ever convince a discouraged person in these situations.
Sentence 20: The thing that brings him back is courage and the natural sight of other industries and other men going ahead with their programs and business.
Sentence 21: So I wanted you to get that background upon it all, because it seriously concerns the press to give the confidence to the public that the business fabric is now organizing itself, taking steps on its own responsibility to carry on; that it is going to go even farther and stretch itself to meet any possible condition of employment is the thing that will give courage to the public rather than to say to them every day that they should not be alarmed.
Sentence 22: So that I am trying to get this problem across by action in different industries and other groups rather than by too much talking, and, therefore, I don't want to talk about it.
Sentence 23: I want the action to speak for itself.
Sentence 24: These conclusions are not a statement from me.
Sentence 25: That is the conclusion of those men who were present.
