Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 838

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I am expecting Mr. Byrd to fill your columns in the morning, so that I won't have to do anything for you today.
Sentence 3: THE PRESS AND PUBLIC CONFIDENCE
There is a purely personal note that I wanted to sound with you about this business situation--not for publication.
Sentence 4: All of you have been extremely helpful, and the press, in fact, has I think, performed one of the most unique services that has been undertaken in a great many years, in a general restoration of confidence.
Sentence 5: The handling of public psychology in a problem of this kind, however, is a little difficult.
Sentence 6: If we overdo our job we may create a sense that the situation is more serious than it really is.
Sentence 7: There is always a very difficult point of balance, and I only wanted to make a minor suggestion to you, and that is that hereafter if you could confine yourselves merely to the statement of the things that actually happen; that when the government and municipalities and various sources report that they have gone out to do something, that would be the most helpful form of news on the subject.
Sentence 8: So far as our activities are concerned, we have developed an organization in the Department of Commerce to cooperate with the State and municipal and Federal Government so far as public works are concerned.
Sentence 9: And the Chamber of Commerce, as you know, is developing an executive committee to coordinate the work in the business world.
Sentence 10: These two organizations will follow up and see that those things take place that have been promised to us.
Sentence 11: And I am anxious that our form of news be not so much any exaggerated statement of items as it is a definite statement of accomplishment without overdoing the situation.
Sentence 12: There is a delicate balance in it, but I will leave that to you.
Sentence 13: We probably won't arrive either way 100 percent, but we will get somewhere with it.
Sentence 14: I am making that suggestion to you.
Sentence 15: It is not my intention to lecture
Sentence 16: [p.402] the press on what they should do, but you have shown a cooperative spirit in this problem of nationwide importance, and I merely make this suggestion on the form of news.
Sentence 17: It is not censorship.
Sentence 18: COMMANDER BYRD
Q. Have you heard from Commander Byrd ?
Sentence 19: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 20: No, I haven't had a word.
Sentence 21: I am in hopes he will give you something to fill the papers with in the morning, successfully.
