Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 827

MESSAGE ON HAITI
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have no inquiries from you, but I have two or three items from my side.
Sentence 3: One of them is that I have just sent a message to Congress on the state of Haiti, and when we hear that it has been delivered we will release it to you here, which might be most any minute.
Sentence 4: We cannot, however, give it to you until they have had it.
APPOINTMENT OF PATRICK J. HURLEY
Sentence 5: And I have today sent up Colonel Hurley's name as Secretary of War.
Sentence 6: Just for a little background for you about Colonel Hurley--as you must know, he is a very experienced lawyer and was a distinguished officer in the World War, and has been a successful business executive.
Sentence 7: His appointment gives effect to the wish of the Southern States that there should be a Cabinet member from that quarter.
Sentence 8: He has been endorsed by the leading men of practically every State in the South most urgently.
Sentence 9: MEETING WITH BUSINESS LEADERS
There is one other little matter on the background of this conference we had yesterday.
Sentence 10: 1
Sentence 11: I don't know whether it is clearly understood that the committee being set up in the Chamber of Commerce is purely a temporary committee.
Sentence 12: It has just one function, and that is, to organize each industry for the expansion of its construction and its maintenance work.
Sentence 13: 1 See Item 297.
Sentence 14: Secretary Lamont is setting up today a special division in the Department of Commerce to similarly organize and coordinate the public works with the State and municipal and county governments.
Sentence 15: That is all that I have got.
Sentence 16: INTERNAL REVENUE COLLECTOR
Sentence 17: I might add that a new collector has been appointed for the Port of Brooklyn.
Sentence 18: We will give you a note about his background.
Sentence 19: HAITIAN SITUATION
Q. Mr. President, have you any background on the Haiti situation ?
Sentence 20: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 21: Nothing more than appears in the message (?)
Sentence 22: .2
Sentence 23: I have nothing that I can add to that.
Sentence 24: I stated what the situation is in the message to Congress--as we see it.
Sentence 25: 2
Sentence 26: The question mark appears in the transcript.
Sentence 27: Q. Mr. President, will the message deal with the probable appointment of the commission mentioned in the regular message to Congress ?
Sentence 28: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 29: I would rather leave that until you see the message.
