Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 815

NEWS CONFERENCE PROCEDURES
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I had a meeting with the committee1 the other evening, and I presume the committee will formulate the conclusions that were arrived at and circulate them to the correspondents.
Sentence 3: One of the suggestions is that written questions, so far as possible, should be put in 24 hours in advance on subjects that are not critical at the moment and that the questions immediately before the conference be, as far as possible, confined to matters which have arisen on the crest of the day's events.
Sentence 4: It gives me an opportunity for a considered answer, and will enable me to give you more information, because, as in the case today, I have just had a moment to go across the questions, and some of them I am quite willing to reply to, but would like to give them more thought.
Sentence 5: I think that would facilitate the volume of information which can be given.
Sentence 6: In view of the shortness of the time I have had to look over the questions, I am a little bit crippled on giving you adequate reply at this moment, and some of the questions I will carry over to next session.
Sentence 7: 1 A committee of news bureau and wire service heads which was formed at the President's suggestion to assist him in the development of news conferences.
Sentence 8: GOVERNMENT OIL LANDS
There is one question on which you may quote me, with the usual preliminary that it is in answer to a question from the press, as to the policy of the Federal Government on the disposal of oil lands for the future.
Sentence 9: "There will be no leases or disposal of Government oil lands, no matter what category they may lie in, of Government holdings or Government controls, except those which may be mandatory by Congress.
Sentence 10: In other words, there will be complete conservation of Government oil in this administration,"
Q.
Sentence 11: That means that it will only be disposed of by act of Congress.
Sentence 12: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 13: I think there are a few minor cases relating to some Indian lands where oil leases are mandatory.
Sentence 14: That is the reason for that exception.
Sentence 15: That has no bearing on the general policy but I did not want to appear to cover the mandatory leases.
Sentence 16: Q. Does that mean, also, you will take steps to preserve the waste material in the South ?
Sentence 17: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 18: That is a matter of private enterprise.
Sentence 19: I am only speaking of Government holdings and the policy of the Government itself.
Sentence 20: REAR ADMIRAL WILLIAM A. MOFFETT
Sentence 21: Now for matters for your information: Admiral Moffett has been continued as Chief of the Bureau of Naval Aeronautics.
Sentence 22: CENSUS AND REAPPORTIONMENT BILLS
I have a question on the census and reapportionment bills, asking whether I am in favor of their consideration in extraordinary session.
Sentence 23: I understand that the House leaders have stated to the leaders of the Senate that after bills such as the census and reapportionment bills, which originated in the House, have been considered by House committees and formulated by the House and sent to the Senate, that their interest will extend to introducing those bills into the House under a rule waiving the rules of the House provided they are first passed by the Senate.
Sentence 24: That would enable the House to consider those particular pieces of legislation in the extraordinary session without violating the standard which was erected by the House leaders that they should limit their appointments of committees to Agriculture and Ways and Means.
Sentence 25: I am not giving you that information in the fashion that it comes from me or that I have anything to do with it, but merely that it is information as to what has been suggested by the House leaders.
Sentence 26: NATIONAL ORIGINS CLAUSE
Someone wants to know again about the national origins.
Sentence 27: I haven't yet received the opinion of the Attorney General.
APPOINTMENTS AND RESIGNATIONS
On diplomatic appointments there are four or five questions.
Sentence 28: There will be no diplomatic appointments made until after Mr. Stimson's arrival in Washington.2
Sentence 29: So there is no consideration in that quarter at the present moment.
Sentence 30: 2 Henry L. Stimson, Governor-General of the Philippines, was to become Secretary of State.
Sentence 31: Secretary Frank B. Kellogg remained in the Cabinet until his arrival.
Sentence 32: Q.
Sentence 33: When do you expect that arrival, Mr. President ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 34: He will be here the 26th.
Sentence 35: Then there are some more appointments.
Sentence 36: Assistant Secretary [Theodore D.] Robinson resigned, as you know, from the Navy to return to private life--would not consent to continuing.
Sentence 37: The same thing applies to Assistant Secretary [Charles B.] Robbins in the War Department.
Sentence 38: Both of these gentlemen insisted on retirement.
Sentence 39: Mr. Ernest Lee Jahncke of New Orleans will be the Assistant Secretary of the Navy.
Sentence 40: Mr. Jahncke has had much experience with shipping, and is an enthusiastic sailor himself, and is a large and important businessman.
Sentence 41: Q. Is there anything to be said, Mr. President, about Under Secretary Reuben Clark's resignation ?
Sentence 42: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 43: There is no thought going on in that quarter until Mr. Stimson's arrival.
Sentence 44: Mr. Clark is very insistent that he should retire from the State Department at the present moment, but I am in hopes that I can make arrangements.
Sentence 45: Mr. Clark, of course, has been a very valuable Under Secretary.
Sentence 46: For the War Department, Mr. Patrick Hurley of Oklahoma has been made Assistant Secretary.
Sentence 47: Mr. Hurley has a very distinguished war record.
Sentence 48: You can find out more about it from Mr. Akerson.3
3George E. Akerson was Secretary to the President.
Sentence 49: That covers the questions for today.
Sentence 50: I would be glad if the committee would let you all know what the conclusions are about the arrangements for the conferences, and I will try to be more ample on Friday.
