Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 811

GENEVA MEETING ON DISARMAMENT
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: Well, I have a small statement you can quote if you will.
Sentence 3: You can get a confirmation of it from Mr. Akerson later if you wish.
Sentence 4: I am greatly gratified at the promising character of the results for naval reduction arising out of the recent Geneva conference.
Sentence 5: All of the principal naval powers have expressed adherence to the principles suggested by the American delegation, which include the conception of reduction instead of limitation of naval strength.
Sentence 6: They have expressed their desire for full and frank discussion which would lead to the development of the American formula into a practical step.
Sentence 7: The manner by which these discussions are to be initiated has not yet been determined, but the question will be followed up promptly
Q. Mr. President, there is a little confusion in the public mind as [p.140] between the terms reduction and limitation.
Sentence 8: Does reduction mean reduction of existing equipment ?
Sentence 9: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 10: I don't think we will go into that, because it requires a large amount of discussion as to limits, but the sense of it, I think, is perfectly clear that reduction means an actual saving on either construction or present equipment.
Sentence 11: Nothing else is reduction.
Sentence 12: NOMINATION OF CHARLES EVANS HUGHES, JR., TO BE SOLICITOR GENERAL
I have nothing else that I can deal with.
Sentence 13: There is just one point for your information on which you might be accurately informed, not by way of quotation or statement.
Sentence 14: Mr. Hughes' name was presented by the New York leaders some weeks ago, together with others.
Sentence 15: Amongst them were Mr. Bond, of Syracuse, who later found that he could not disassociate himself from his firm.
Sentence 16: Mr. Hughes was subsequently supported by leaders of the bench and the bar not only from New York State but throughout many other parts of the country.
Sentence 17: There seems to be some confusion as to the relation of the New York organization, and I merely wanted you to have that for your own information.
Sentence 18: I have nothing more.
