Sentence 1: 1929 Inaugural Address 9
Sentence 2: [Delivered in person at the Capitol]
My countrymen:
Sentence 3: This occasion is not alone the administration of the most sacred oath which can be assumed by an American citizen.
Sentence 4: It is a dedication and consecration under God to the highest office in service of our people.
Sentence 5: I assume this trust in the humility of knowledge that only through the guidance of Almighty Providence can I hope to discharge its ever-increasing burdens.
Sentence 6: It is in keeping with tradition throughout our history that I should express simply and directly the opinions which I hold concerning some of the matters of present importance.
Sentence 7: OUR PROGRESS
If we survey the situation of our Nation both at home and abroad, we find many satisfactions; we find some causes for concern.
Sentence 8: We have emerged from the losses of the Great War and the reconstruction following it with increased virility and strength.
Sentence 9: From this strength we have contributed to the recovery and progress of the world.
Sentence 10: What America has done has given renewed hope and courage to all who have faith in government by the people.
Sentence 11: In the large view, we have reached a higher degree of comfort and security than ever existed before in the history of the world.
Sentence 12: Through liberation from widespread poverty we have reached a higher degree of individual freedom than ever before.
Sentence 13: The devotion to and concern for our institutions are deep and sincere.
Sentence 14: We are steadily building a new race--a new civilization great in its own attainments.
Sentence 15: The influence and high purposes of our Nation are respected among the peoples of the world.
Sentence 16: We aspire to distinction in the world, but to a distinction based upon confidence in our sense of justice as well as our accomplishments within our own borders and in our own lives.
Sentence 17: For wise guidance in this great period of recovery the Nation is deeply indebted to Calvin Coolidge.
Sentence 18: But all this majestic advance should not obscure the constant dangers from which self-government must be safeguarded.
Sentence 19: The strong man must at all times be alert to the attack of insidious disease.
Sentence 20: THE FAILURE OF OUR SYSTEM OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE
The most malign of all these dangers today is disregard and disobedience of law.
Sentence 21: Crime is increasing.
Sentence 22: Confidence in rigid and speedy justice is decreasing.
Sentence 23: I am not prepared to believe that this indicates any decay in the moral fibre of the American people.
Sentence 24: I am not prepared to believe that it indicates an impotence of the Federal Government to enforce its laws.
Sentence 25: It is only in part due to the additional burdens imposed upon our judicial system by the 18th amendment.
Sentence 26: 1
The problem is much wider than that.
Sentence 27: Many influences had increasingly complicated and weakened our law enforcement organization long before the adoption of the 18th amendment.
Sentence 28: 1
Sentence 29: The 18th amendment to the Constitution, ratified January 16, 1919, prohibited "the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors within, the transportation thereof into, or the exportation thereof from the United States and all territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage purposes.
Sentence 30: "
To reestablish the vigor and effectiveness of law enforcement we must critically consider the entire Federal machinery of justice, the redistribution of its functions, the simplification of its procedure, the provision of additional special tribunals, the better selection of juries, and the more effective organization of our agencies of investigation and prosecution that justice may be sure and that it may be swift.
Sentence 31: While the authority of the Federal Government extends to but part of our vast system of national, State, and local justice, yet the standards which the Federal Government establishes have the most profound influence upon the whole structure.
Sentence 32: We are fortunate in the ability and integrity of our Federal judges and attorneys.
Sentence 33: But the system which these officers are called upon to administer is in many respects ill adapted to present-day conditions.
Sentence 34: Its intricate and involved rules of procedure have become the refuge of both big and little criminals.
Sentence 35: There is a belief abroad that by invoking technicalities, subterfuge, and delay, the ends of justice may be thwarted by those who can pay the cost.
Sentence 36: Reform, reorganization, and strengthening of our whole judicial and enforcement system, both in civil and criminal sides, have been advocated for years by statesmen, judges, and bar associations.
Sentence 37: First steps toward that end should not longer be delayed.
Sentence 38: Rigid and expeditious justice is the first safeguard of freedom, the basis of all ordered liberty, the vital force of progress.
Sentence 39: It must not come to be in our Republic that it can be defeated by the indifference of the citizens, by exploitation of the delays and entanglements of the law, or by combinations of criminals.
Sentence 40: Justice must not fail because the agencies of enforcement are either delinquent or inefficiently organized.
Sentence 41: To consider these evils, to find their remedy, is the most sore necessity of our times.
Sentence 42: ENFORCEMENT OF THE 18th AMENDMENT
Of the undoubted abuses which have grown up under the 18th amendment, part are due to the causes I have just mentioned; but part are due to the failure of some States to accept their share of responsibility for concurrent enforcement and to the failure of many State and local officials to accept the obligation under their oath of office zealously to enforce the laws.
Sentence 43: With the failures from these many causes has come a dangerous expansion in the criminal elements who have found enlarged opportunities in dealing in illegal liquor.
Sentence 44: But a large responsibility rests directly upon our citizens.
Sentence 45: There would be little traffic in illegal liquor if only criminals patronized it.
Sentence 46: We must awake to the fact that this patronage from large numbers of law-abiding citizens is supplying the rewards and stimulating crime.
Sentence 47: I have been selected by you to execute and enforce the laws of the country.
Sentence 48: I propose to do so to the extent of my own abilities, but the measure of success that the Government shall attain will depend upon the moral support which you, as citizens, extend.
Sentence 49: The duty of citizens to support the laws of the land is coequal with the duty of their Government to enforce the laws which exist.
Sentence 50: No greater national service can be given by men and women of good will--who, I know, are not unmindful of the responsibilities of citizenship--than that they should, by their example, assist in stamping out crime and outlawry by refusing participation in and condemning all transactions with illegal liquor.
Sentence 51: Our whole system of self-government will crumble either if officials elect what laws they will enforce or citizens elect what laws they will support.
Sentence 52: The worst evil of disregard for some law is that it destroys respect for all law.
Sentence 53: For our citizens to patronize the violation of a particular law on the ground that they are opposed to it is destructive of the very basis of all that protection of life, of homes and property which they rightly claim under other laws.
Sentence 54: If citizens do not like a law, their duty as honest men and women is to discourage its violation; their right is openly to work for its repeal.
Sentence 55: To those of criminal mind there can be no appeal but vigorous enforcement of the law.
Sentence 56: Fortunately they are but a small percentage of our people.
Sentence 57: Their activities must be stopped.
Sentence 58: A NATIONAL INVESTIGATION
I propose to appoint a national commission for a searching investigation of the whole structure of our Federal system of jurisprudence, to include the method of enforcement of the 18th amendment and the causes of abuse under it.
Sentence 59: Its purpose will be to make such recommendations for reorganization of the administration of Federal laws and court procedure as may be found desirable.
Sentence 60: In the meantime it is essential that a large part of the enforcement activities be transferred from the Treasury Department to the Department of Justice as a beginning of more effective organization.
Sentence 61: 2
2
Sentence 62: Although the final sentence of this paragraph was included in the official text printed as Senate Document 1 (71st Cong., special sess.), it was reported in the press that the President omitted the sentence in his delivery of the address.
Sentence 63: THE RELATION OF GOVERNMENT TO BUSINESS
The election has again confirmed the determination of the American people that regulation of private enterprise and not Government ownership or operation is the course rightly to be pursued in our relation to business.
Sentence 64: In recent years we have established a differentiation in the whole method of business regulation between the industries which produce and distribute commodities on the one hand and public utilities on the other.
Sentence 65: In the former, our laws insist upon effective competition; in the latter, because we substantially confer a monopoly by limiting competition, we must regulate their services and rates.
Sentence 66: The rigid enforcement of the laws applicable to both groups is the very base of equal opportunity and freedom from domination for all our people, and it is just as essential for the stability and prosperity of business itself as for the protection of the public at large.
Sentence 67: Such regulation should be extended by the Federal Government within the limitations of the Constitution and only when the individual States are without power to protect their citizens through their own authority.
Sentence 68: On the other hand, we should be fearless when the authority rests only in the Federal Government.
Sentence 69: COOPERATION BY THE GOVERNMENT
Sentence 70: The larger purpose of our economic thought should be to establish more firmly stability and security of business and employment and thereby remove poverty still further from our borders.
Sentence 71: Our people have in recent years developed a new-found capacity for cooperation among themselves to effect high purposes in public welfare.
Sentence 72: It is an advance toward the highest conception of self-government.
Sentence 73: Self-government does not and should not imply the use of political agencies alone.
Sentence 74: Progress is born of cooperation in the community--not from governmental restraints.
Sentence 75: The Government should assist and encourage these movements of collective self-help by itself cooperating with them.
Sentence 76: Business has by cooperation made great progress in the advancement of service, in stability, in regularity of employment, and in the correction of its own abuses.
Sentence 77: Such progress, however, can continue only so long as business manifests its respect for law.
Sentence 78: There is an equally important field of cooperation by the Federal Government with the multitude of agencies, State, municipal, and private, in the systematic development of those processes which directly affect public health, recreation, education, and the home.
Sentence 79: We have need further to perfect the means by which Government can be adapted to human service.
Sentence 80: EDUCATION
Sentence 81: Although education is primarily a responsibility of the States and local communities, and rightly so, yet the Nation as a whole is vitally concerned in its development everywhere to the highest standards and to complete universality.
Sentence 82: Self-government can succeed only through an instructed electorate.
Sentence 83: Our objective is not simply to overcome illiteracy.
Sentence 84: The Nation has marched far beyond that.
Sentence 85: The more complex the problems of the Nation become, the greater is the need for more and more advanced instruction.
Sentence 86: Moreover, as our numbers increase and as our life expands with science and invention, we must discover more and more leaders for every walk of life.
Sentence 87: We cannot hope to succeed in directing this increasingly complex civilization unless we can draw all the talent of leadership from the whole people.
Sentence 88: One civilization after another has been wrecked upon the attempt to secure sufficient leadership from a single group or class.
Sentence 89: If we would prevent the growth of class distinctions and would constantly refresh our leadership with the ideals of our people, we must draw constantly from the general mass.
Sentence 90: The full opportunity for every boy and girl to rise through the selective processes of education can alone secure to us this leadership.
Sentence 91: PUBLIC HEALTH
In public health the discoveries of science have opened a new era.
Sentence 92: Many sections of our country and many groups of our citizens suffer from diseases the eradication of which are mere matters of administration and moderate expenditure.
Sentence 93: Public health service should be as fully organized and as universally incorporated into our governmental system as is public education.
Sentence 94: The returns are a thousandfold in economic benefits, and infinitely more in reduction of suffering and promotion of human happiness.
Sentence 95: WORLD PEACE
The United States fully accepts the profound truth that our own progress, prosperity, and peace are interlocked with the progress, prosperity, and peace of all humanity.
Sentence 96: The whole world is at peace.
Sentence 97: The dangers to a continuation of this peace today are largely the fear and suspicion which still haunt the world.
Sentence 98: No suspicion or fear can be rightly directed toward our country.
Sentence 99: Those who have a true understanding of America know that we have no desire for territorial expansion, for economic or other domination of other peoples.
Sentence 100: Such purposes are repugnant to our ideals of human freedom.
Sentence 101: Our form of government is ill adapted to the responsibilities which inevitably follow permanent limitation of the independence of other peoples.
Sentence 102: Superficial observers seem to find no destiny for our abounding increase in population, in wealth and power except that of imperialism.
Sentence 103: They fail to see that the American people are engrossed in the building for themselves of a new economic system, a new social system, a new political system--all of which are characterized by aspirations of freedom of opportunity and thereby are the negation of imperialism.
Sentence 104: They fail to realize that because of our abounding prosperity our youth are pressing more and more into our institutions of learning; that our people are seeking a larger vision through art, literature, science, and travel; that they are moving toward stronger moral and spiritual life--that from these things our sympathies are broadening beyond the bounds of our Nation and race toward their true expression in a real brotherhood of man.
Sentence 105: They fail to see that the idealism of America will lead it to no narrow or selfish channel, but inspire it to do its full share as a Nation toward the advancement of civilization.
Sentence 106: It will do that not by mere declaration but by taking a practical part in supporting all useful international undertakings.
Sentence 107: We not only desire peace with the world, but to see peace maintained throughout the world.
Sentence 108: We wish to advance the reign of justice and reason toward the extinction of force.
Sentence 109: The recent treaty for the renunciation of war as an instrument of national policy sets an advanced standard in our conception of the relations of nations.
Sentence 110: Its acceptance should pave the way to greater limitation of armament, the offer of which we sincerely extend to the world.
Sentence 111: But its full realization also implies a greater and greater perfection in the instrumentalities for pacific settlement of controversies between nations.
Sentence 112: In the creation and use of these instrumentalities we should support every sound method of conciliation, arbitration, and judicial settlement.
Sentence 113: American statesmen were among the first to propose, and they have constantly urged upon the world, the establishment of a tribunal for the settlement of controversies of a justiciable character.
Sentence 114: The Permanent Court of International Justice in its major purpose is thus peculiarly identified with American ideals and with American statesmanship.
Sentence 115: No more potent instrumentality for this purpose has ever been conceived and no other is practicable of establishment.
Sentence 116: The reservations placed upon our adherence should not be misinterpreted.
Sentence 117: The United States seeks by these reservations no special privilege or advantage but only to clarify our relation to advisory opinions and other matters which are subsidiary to the major purpose of the Court.
Sentence 118: The way should, and I believe will, be found by which we may take our proper place in a movement so fundamental to the progress of peace.
Sentence 119: Our people have determined that we should make no political engagements such as membership in the League of Nations, which may commit us in advance as a nation to become involved in the settlements of controversies between other countries.
Sentence 120: They adhere to the belief that the independence of America from such obligations increases its ability and availability for service in all fields of human progress.
Sentence 121: I have lately returned from a journey among our sister Republics of the Western Hemisphere.
Sentence 122: 3
I have received unbounded hospitality and courtesy as their expression of friendliness to our country.
Sentence 123: We are held by particular bonds of sympathy and common interest with them.
Sentence 124: They are each of them building a racial character and a culture which is an impressive contribution to human progress.
Sentence 125: We wish only for the maintenance of their independence, the growth of their stability and their prosperity.
Sentence 126: While we have had wars in the Western Hemisphere, yet on the whole the record is in encouraging contrast with that of other parts of the world.
Sentence 127: Fortunately the New World is largely free from the inheritances of fear and distrust which have so troubled the Old World.
Sentence 128: We should keep it so.
Sentence 129: 3 See Supplement IV of this volume.
Sentence 130: It is impossible, my countrymen, to speak of peace without profound emotion.
Sentence 131: In thousands of homes in America, in millions of homes around the world, there are vacant chairs.
Sentence 132: It would be a shameful confession of our unworthiness if it should develop that we have abandoned the hope for which all these men died.
Sentence 133: Surely civilization is old enough, surely mankind is mature enough so that we ought in our own lifetime to find a way to permanent peace.
Sentence 134: Abroad, to west and east, are nations whose sons mingled their blood with the blood of our sons on the battlefields.
Sentence 135: Most of these nations have contributed to our race, to our culture, our knowledge, and our progress.
Sentence 136: From one of them we derive our very language and from many of them much of the genius of our institutions.
Sentence 137: Their desire for peace is as deep and sincere as our own.
Sentence 138: Peace can be contributed to by respect for our ability in defense.
Sentence 139: Peace can be promoted by the limitation of arms and by the creation of the instrumentalities for peaceful settlement of controversies.
Sentence 140: But it will become a reality only through self-restraint and active effort in friendliness and helpfulness.
Sentence 141: I covet for this administration a record of having further contributed to advance the cause of peace.
Sentence 142: PARTY RESPONSIBILITIES
In our form of democracy the expression of the popular will can be effected only through the instrumentality of political parties.
Sentence 143: We maintain party government not to promote intolerant partisanship but because opportunity must be given for expression of the popular will, and organization provided for the execution of its mandates and for accountability of government to the people.
Sentence 144: It follows that the government both in the executive and the legislative branches must carry out in good faith the platforms upon which the party was entrusted with power.
Sentence 145: But the government is that of the whole people; the party is the instrument through which policies are determined and men chosen to bring them into being.
Sentence 146: The animosities of elections should have no place in our Government for government must concern itself alone with the common weal.
Sentence 147: SPECIAL SESSION OF THE CONGRESS
Action upon some of the proposals upon which the Republican Party was returned to power, particularly further agricultural relief and limited changes in the tariff, cannot in justice to our farmers, our labor, and our manufacturers be postponed.
Sentence 148: I shall therefore request a special session of Congress for the consideration of these two questions.
Sentence 149: I shall deal with each of them upon the assembly of the Congress.
Sentence 150: OTHER MANDATES FROM THE ELECTION
Sentence 151: It appears to me that the more important further mandates from the recent election were the maintenance of the integrity of the Constitution; the vigorous enforcement of the laws; the continuance of economy in public expenditure; the continued regulation of business to prevent domination in the community; the denial of ownership or operation of business by the Government in competition with its citizens; the avoidance of policies which would involve us in the controversies of foreign nations; the more effective reorganization of the departments of the Federal Government; the expansion of public works; and the promotion of welfare activities affecting education and the home.
Sentence 152: These were the more tangible determinations of the election, but beyond them was the confidence and belief of the people that we would not neglect the support of the embedded ideals and aspirations of America.
Sentence 153: These ideals and aspirations are the touchstones upon which the day-today administration and legislative acts of government must be tested.
Sentence 154: More than this, the Government must, so far as lies within its proper powers, give leadership to the realization of these ideals and to the fruition of these aspirations.
Sentence 155: No one can adequately reduce these things of the spirit to phrases or to a catalogue of definitions.
Sentence 156: We do know what the attainments of these ideals should be: the preservation of self-government and its full foundations in local government; the perfection of justice whether in economic or in social fields; the maintenance of ordered liberty; the denial of domination by any group or class; the building up and preservation of equality of opportunity; the stimulation of initiative and individuality; absolute integrity in public affairs; the choice of officials for fitness to office; the direction of economic progress toward prosperity and the further lessening of poverty; the freedom of public opinion; the sustaining of education and of the advancement of knowledge; the growth of religious spirit and the tolerance of all faiths; the strengthening of the home; the advancement of peace.
Sentence 157: There is no short road to the realization of these aspirations.
Sentence 158: Ours is a progressive people, but with a determination that progress must be based upon the foundation of experience.
Sentence 159: Ill-considered remedies for our faults bring only penalties after them.
Sentence 160: But if we hold the faith of the men in our mighty past who created these ideals, we shall leave them heightened and strengthened for our children.
Sentence 161: CONCLUSION
Sentence 162: This is not the time and place for extended discussion.
Sentence 163: The questions before our country are problems of progress to higher standards; they are not the problems of degeneration.
Sentence 164: They demand thought and they serve to quicken the conscience and enlist our sense of responsibility for their settlement.
Sentence 165: And that responsibility rests upon you, my countrymen, as much as upon those of us who have been selected for office.
Sentence 166: Ours is a land rich in resources, stimulating in its glorious beauty, filled with millions of happy homes, blessed with comfort and opportunity.
Sentence 167: In no nation are the institutions of progress more advanced.
Sentence 168: In no nation are the fruits of accomplishment more secure.
Sentence 169: In no nation is the government more worthy of respect.
Sentence 170: No country is more loved by its people.
Sentence 171: I have an abiding faith in their capacity, integrity, and high purpose.
Sentence 172: I have no fears for the future of our country.
Sentence 173: It is bright with hope.
Sentence 174: In the presence of my countrymen, mindful of the solemnity of this occasion, knowing what the task means and the responsibility which it involves, I beg your tolerance, your aid, and your cooperation.
Sentence 175: I ask the help of Almighty God in this service to my country to which you have called me.
