Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 809

GERMAN REPARATIONS AGREEMENT
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have a question as to whether the administration would submit the Young reparations agreement to Congress or not, or whether we become a signatory to it.
Sentence 3: Our Government is not a party to that agreement, and therefore, would not be a signatory to it.
Sentence 4: There is no occasion to submit the agreement to Congress.
Sentence 5: The only point for congressional action is an authority to the administration to reduce Germany's treaty obligations in respect to the comparatively minor items of Army occupation costs and mixed claims.
Sentence 6: PROHIBITION ENFORCEMENT INCIDENTS AT THE CANADIAN BORDER
I have some questions as to the incidents on the border.
Sentence 7: I deeply deplore the killing of any person.
Sentence 8: The Treasury Department is making an effort to prevent the misuse of arms.
Sentence 9: Any case of misuse will be [p.190] determined by the orderly proceedings of the Department and the courts.
Sentence 10: I hope that the communities along the border will do their best to help the Treasury and the systematic war that is being carried on by international criminals against the laws of the United States.
Sentence 11: It is these activities that are at the root of all of our difficulties.
Sentence 12: Q. Mr. President, is that for formal quotation ?
Sentence 13: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 14: Yes--both of them.
Sentence 15: RAILROAD CONSOLIDATION PLAN
I have another question as to whether or not I am advised of any intention of the Interstate Commerce Commission to publish an official railroad consolidation plan in the near future.
Sentence 16: I have no such advice.
Sentence 17: The Interstate Commerce Commission, as you know, is an independent agency, and does not consult the President.
Sentence 18: INTEROCEANIC CANAL BOARD
We have a little statement here as to the creation of the Interoceanic Canal Board to aid the Secretary of War and the Chief of Engineers in the surveys authorized for the Nicaragua Canal.
Sentence 19: It will go into details.
Sentence 20: It gives you the appointments that were put out.
