Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 767

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: Well, I have no questions lodged in advance which give me time for cooperation with you and a little mature thought.
Sentence 3: There are one or two questions that I have to think over before I want to make any reply.
Sentence 4: FEDERAL RADIO COMMISSION
There are some questions relating to the Radio Board again.
Sentence 5: I regret to say that we haven't as yet determined the man from the first zone.
Sentence 6: We hope to in the course of the next few days.
Sentence 7: THE REPUBLICAN PARTY IN THE SOUTH
There are a number of questions that I have had from time to time in respect to the organization in the Southern States, and on that I have now worked out a reply.
Sentence 8: It has been the aspiration of Republican Presidents over many years-and I might say that the shorthand note which you will get in half an hour will expand this note that I have got here, that will be the accurate statement.
Sentence 9: It has been the aspiration of Republican Presidents over a great many years to build up a sound Republican organization in the Southern States of a character that would commend itself to the citizens of those States.
Sentence 10: This aspiration has arisen out of no narrow sense of partisanship, but it comes from the conviction, which is shared equally by leaders of all parties, that the basis of sound government must be a strong two-party organization; that the voice of all the States in the councils of government can only be secured by this means; that the welfare of the Nation at large requires the breaking down of sectionalism in politics; and that [p.43] the public service can be assured only by responsible organization.
Sentence 11: And furthermore, it is the belief of these leaders, which I share, that the building up of such organization must in all of our States of self-government be rounded upon the action of those States themselves.
Sentence 12: Under Republican leadership [in] the border States and in Virginia and North Carolina they have long since built up a vigorous party organization which assures the Republican representation in Congress from those States.
Sentence 13: In the States of Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana, Texas, and Florida, particularly, the Republican leadership has in recent times increased in strength and is now rendering able and conscientious service in maintaining the wholesome organization under whose advice the appointments to public office have steadily improved, and they do commend themselves to the citizens of those States.
Sentence 14: Laterally, there has been a movement in the last few weeks, of which I highly approve, by which the leaders in Texas, Alabama, Florida, and some of the other States are broadening the basis of party organization by the establishment of advisory committees of the highest type of their citizenship to deal with administrative questions and to cooperate with the independent Democrats.
Sentence 15: This movement springing as it does from those States themselves gives further assurance of strengthening of the public service, and it is the public service that I must view.
Sentence 16: Now, the recent exposures of abuses in recommendations to Federal offices, particularly in some parts of the States of South Carolina, Georgia, and Mississippi, under which some of the Federal departments, mainly the Post Office, were misled as to appointments, obviously renders it impossible for the old organization in those States to command the confidence of the administration, although there are many members of those organizations that are not subject to criticism.
Sentence 17: But such conditions are intolerable to public service.
Sentence 18: They are repugnant to the ideals and the purposes of the Republican Party.
Sentence 19: They are unjust to the people of the South, and they must and will be ended.
Sentence 20: Now, the duty of reorganization to correct these conditions rests on the people of those States, and all the effort to that end will receive the hearty cooperation of this administration.
Sentence 21: And if these three States are [p.44] unable to initiate such organization through the leadership of men who will command public confidence in those States and thus protect the public service, then the Federal departments will be compelled to adopt other methods of securing advice for the selection of Federal employees.
Sentence 22: You may quote that statement from me, if you wish.
Sentence 23: I will give you the full quote in a short time.
Sentence 24: NEWS CONFERENCE QUESTIONS
Sentence 25: If you could manage to lodge your questions a little further in advance it would be helpful, especially on Tuesday, as Cabinet lasts right up to your meeting and it gives me very little opportunity to think about them.
Sentence 26: So if we have that arrangement carried out I can be of more help to you.
