Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 835

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have no very important questions this morning--nothing, I think, that I am ready to make a statement about for quotation.
Sentence 3: Various things are being prepared, but haven't got to the stage where I am ready to make any announcements.
Sentence 4: RAPIDAN RIVER FISHING LODGE
Sentence 5: In the second category of questions--that is, the things you can attribute to the White House--the question is asked if I am proposing to set up a fishing lodge at the headwaters of the Rapidan River.
Sentence 6: That is not true, except in the sense that the director of the Shenandoah Park, knowing that I was cognizant of the fishing facilities of the upper Rapidan from previous experience, has proposed to make one branch of it accessible by building some roads and trails and building a fishing cabin therein; and I accept his suggestion with gratitude.
Sentence 7: I do not propose to do anything, at the moment at least, about rebuilding Mount Weather.1 I rather prefer the more rustic and intimate type [p.31] of a log cabin than a more formal place, like at Mount Weather with all its encumbrances of servants, et cetera.
Sentence 8: 1 President Coolidge had proposed the remodeling of a former Weather Bureau station in the Blue Ridge Mountains near Bluemont, Va., to be a Summer White House.
Sentence 9: The station included an observatory, laboratories, and staff living quarters on an 84-acre tract
That is not to say that Mount Weather might not yet be available, but in any event for the present I am entirely satisfied with the arrangements which the director of the park is making for my entertainment for a day or two during the summer.
Sentence 10: Q. How far away is that ?
Sentence 11: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 12: It is about 97 miles--about 3 hours from Washington.
Sentence 13: The nearest post office is Madison, Virginia--Madison being about 9 miles from the spot.
Sentence 14: RESIGNATION OF WILLIAM P. MACCRACKEN, JR.
Sentence 15: A question is asked in regard to Mr. MacCracken's resignation as Assistant Secretary of Commerce for aviation.
Sentence 16: Mr. MacCracken has resigned as he is determined to return to business, much to our regret.
Sentence 17: But he is going to remain at the Department of Commerce for another 2 months.
Sentence 18: In the meantime, nothing has been settled as to his successor.
Sentence 19: Mr. MacCracken, like a great many men who come into public service, did so at a very great sacrifice, and I can't very well insist on men going on for a great number of years in that position.
Sentence 20: FEDERAL RADIO COMMISSION
There is a question regarding Radio Commission appointments.
Sentence 21: Those have not yet been settled.
Sentence 22: I hope that we shall arrive at some conclusions there within a couple of days.
Sentence 23: We have not yet reached a determination about that.
Sentence 24: THE SITUATION IN MEXICO
There are some questions here--more or less background questions.
Sentence 25: One of them is in respect to the treatment of any Mexican revolutionists that might come over the border.
Sentence 26: Of course, this is not for quotation or authority.
Sentence 27: But obviously the United States will always act as a sanctuary for people fleeing from evil, and that is about as much as we say about it.
Sentence 28: On the Mexican situation generally, our advices are that the revolutionists [p.32] have, as you know, retreated from Torreon.
Sentence 29: The only one further item than that is that it appears that the total rebel forces there were something under 6,000 men.
Sentence 30: General Almazan 2 is approaching with about 18,000.
Sentence 31: 2 Gen. Jesus M. Almazan was commander of Government forces in the states of Coahuila and Nuevo Leon.
Sentence 32: TAX REFUND PUBLICITY
There are two matters which have appeared in some of the press discussions that I am going to take the liberty to comment on.
Sentence 33: One of them is the sort of implication that something was imposed upon Mr. Mellon in respect to the publication of tax returns.
Sentence 34: 3
Sentence 35: That is not the case.
Sentence 36: Mr. Mellon made those proposals himself in order to comply with the spirit of the last Revenue Act--and the proposals come from him as a method by which that problem can be settled.
Sentence 37: 3 See Item 7.
Sentence 38: PROHIBITION ENFORCEMENT GOALS
Sentence 39: There is also some thought, apparently, that I propose to initiate some kind of drastic, dramatic prohibition drives that will be startling in character--filled with news.
Sentence 40: That is now [not] my purpose or object.
Sentence 41: My purpose is to gradually, week by week, year by year, as rapidly as possible, build up the enforcement of the laws of the United States, whether they relate to prohibition or narcotics or any other subject; to tighten the organization, to reorganize, but in general to build up law enforcement.
Sentence 42: And in that effort to reorganize both the administrative side and judicial system.
Sentence 43: We are working to the ultimate purpose of reducing crime in the United States, and I expect the support of the press and of every decent citizen in this country.
Sentence 44: Law enforcement permits of no argument.
Sentence 45: The Government has only one duty.
Sentence 46: I only want to make it clear that I am not looking for dramatics.
Sentence 47: I am looking for substantial, permanent advance of the country to a realization of the necessity of enforcing the laws of the United States as they are on the books.
Sentence 48: Q. Mr. President, is the last for direct quotation?
Sentence 49: [p.33]
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 50: That is background material for you.
Sentence 51: Q.
Sentence 52: Do you think we could use the Mellon fact ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 53: No, I think that is only informative for you.
Sentence 54: I want you to have an understanding of what the position is.
