Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 672

RAILWAY CONSOLIDATION IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: Well, I have a question relating to the consolidation of railways in the District of Columbia, asking if I will comment.
Sentence 3: Those are matters that must be dealt with by the Public Utilities Commission of the District of Columbia--[they] do not come up to me until they are ready to make some recommendation to Congress.
Sentence 4: CHIEF OF ENGINEERS
Sentence 5: Also, I have a question wanting to know if I will appoint a Chief of Engineers.
Sentence 6: There has been no determination made about that yet.
Sentence 7: FEDERAL PRISONS
I have a little information on the prison question.
Sentence 8: Through the cooperation of Secretary Good and the Attorney General we have found a temporary solution to at least a part of the overcrowding in the general Federal prisons.
Sentence 9: As you know, the Army has three major prisons--one at Blackwell Island, one at Leavenworth, which is separate from the general Federal prison, and one at Alcatraz Island.
Sentence 10: Those prisons are not fully inhabited.
Sentence 11: The Leavenworth prison has a capacity of 1,600 prisoners and is a very model establishment.
Sentence 12: And Blackwell Island and Alcatraz are both short of their full complement at the present time, and some of the major Army post prisons are underoccupied.
Sentence 13: So that we are proposing, subject to being able to disentangle any legal difficulty, to transfer the Leavenworth military prison temporarily to the Department of Justice until such time as we can get appropriations and some construction done.
Sentence 14: That will give us room for about 1,600 men and enable us to take the worst of the overcrowding off the two major prisons at Leavenworth and Atlanta.
Sentence 15: Q. Mr. President, do you mean the 1,600 by using Blackwell's Island ?
Sentence 16: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 17: No, it is for 1,600 at Leavenworth.
Sentence 18: We will use Blackwell's Island and Alcatraz to accommodate some of the men at present in Leavenworth and perhaps use some of the Army post prisons for short-term men.
Sentence 19: MACDONALD-DAWES DISARMAMENT DISCUSSIONS
Sentence 20: I have one other question, and I am afraid I cannot give an adequate answer to it.
Sentence 21: It is a question in respect to discussions going on between Premier [J. Ramsay] MacDonald and Ambassador [Charles G.] Dawes.
Sentence 22: Obviously, as stated in the press, they relate to disarmament.
Sentence 23: I regret I am not in a position to make any statement to help you out much as [p.259] yet.
Sentence 24: I hope the time will come when I can illuminate that subject more for you.
Sentence 25: Otherwise, I have nothing on my mind.
