Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 681

SAFETY OF AMERICAN CITIZENS IN PALESTINE
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have a question about the disturbance in Palestine.[1]
Sentence 3: We are naturally very much concerned for the safety of our citizens there.
Sentence 4: I am advised that the British Government has taken very strong and extensive measures for the restoration of order, and I am in hopes that we will have no more loss of life.
Sentence 5: [1] Arab-Jewish hostilities broke out in Jerusalem on August 23, 1929, and spread to Hebron and elsewhere.
Sentence 6: On August 25, the United States Consul General reported casualty estimates of 100 killed and 300 wounded, including 12 Americans dead and others wounded at Hebron.
Sentence 7: The British sent troops by air and rail, as well as a battleship and aircraft carrier.
Sentence 8: WESTERN GOVERNORS CONFERENCE AND PUBLIC LAND SUGGESTIONS
Sentence 9: I also have some questions about the Western Conference of Governors and the suggestion that I made for the appointment of a commission to examine into public land questions.[2]
[2] See
Item 185
.
Sentence 10: I have a telegram this morning from Governor
Sentence 11: [H. Clarence] Baldridge, of Idaho, who is the Chairman of the Conference, in which the Governors express their very warm approval of the suggested appointment of a commission and of the suggestions for its consideration.
Sentence 12: So that I will appoint that commission at as early a moment as we can select the men.
Sentence 13: Q. Mr. President, is he an officer of the Conference?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 14: Yes, he is the Chairman of the Conference.
Sentence 15: The Conference passed a resolution yesterday to that effect.
Sentence 16: This is background on that matter for you.
Sentence 17: The proposals there are entirely of conservation order.
Sentence 18: There never has been any consideration given to the conservation of the ranges.
Sentence 19: We have neglected them during the whole history of the Government.
Sentence 20: They have been overgrazed.
Sentence 21: They are today probably not worth 50 percent of what they were 20 years ago from a pasturage point of view, and I am advised that in another 20 years they will be to a considerable extent ruined and beyond remedy.
Sentence 22: Only natural grasses are possible--they are being eliminated by overgrazing.
Sentence 23: This is fundamentally a proposal to not only simplify the Federal relations with the States but to secure a positive conservation program under the management of the States and for the benefit of the public schools in those States of the unappropriated public lands.
Sentence 24: It is not a suggestion to transfer the mineral rights, so there is no question of mineral conservation arises in it at all.
Sentence 25: It is proposed only to transfer the surface rights.
Sentence 26: There is a suggestion also for better conservation of water--the devotion of the Reclamation Service to water storage, and the simplification of the Government relations with the States over reclamation and land projects.
Sentence 27: Some change is necessary in the Reclamation Service from a legal point of view, because, as I pointed out in the letter sent out to Salt Lake, the Reclamation Service was rounded on the reclamation of public lands.
Sentence 28: Practically all the lands in the West that are available for reclamation have now passed into private hands.
Sentence 29: It will require some reorientation of the Reclamation Service if it is to continue its activities.
Sentence 30: Laterally, the Reclamation Service has secured private agreements with private landholders by which the landholders contribute under the Reclamation Act.
Sentence 31: Voluntary agreement at best is very unsatisfactory.
Sentence 32: The States are the only political entity which have the power to enforce contributions in the matter of reclamation of private land.
Sentence 33: That is only one of many reasons, but it is a very pertinent reason for requiring some reorientation of the Reclamation Service.
Sentence 34: And it is a part of these suggestions that this commission should consider the rounding out of the Federal Forest Reserves from such forests as may still be on public domain and not already so far appropriated.
Sentence 35: There is very little forest left not incorporated in the Forest Reserves.
Sentence 36: There may be some, however, and this will offer an opportunity to investigate as to what remaining forest can be embraced in the Forest Service before any transfer of the domain should be made.
Sentence 37: But all those suggestions are purely tentative for investigation.
Sentence 38: I have one question as to whether or not those suggestions as to the setting up of a commission have been approved by the Service in the Department of the Interior.
Sentence 39: I should have thought that would have been obvious.
Sentence 40: The entire staff of the Interior--the Director of the Geological Survey, the Land Commissioner, and the Director of the Reclamation Service, all sat in in the preparation of that communication.
Sentence 41: And that is all that I have before me at the present moment.
