Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 823

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I am afraid this is going to be a famine morning.
Sentence 3: I have some questions which are not yet far enough developed for me to make an adequate statement about.
Sentence 4: I have one or two minor things, purely background order.
Sentence 5: TIMING OF APPOINTMENT ANNOUNCEMENTS
I have several questions relating to nominations--appointments.
Sentence 6: In the main, and there are a considerable number, the appointments must be made and submitted to the Senate--judges, some district attorneys, various officials around through the Government.
Sentence 7: I have not proposed to announce any of those until they are sent to the Senate.
Sentence 8: There are some administrative offices that we may want to announce in the meantime.
Sentence 9: I do not say this without exception, but I would prefer to hold them up until the Senate can act on them.
Sentence 10: That applies to the Radio Commission as well.
Sentence 11: RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA COMMUNICATIONS
Another matter that has been raised a time or two--and purely for your own information--is the question of the proposed acquisition of the Radio Corporation's communications by the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation.
Sentence 12: That combination is inhibited by the last Radio Act, and anything in that matter must go to Congress.
Sentence 13: It is not a matter for administrative action.
Sentence 14: Nothing can be done about it either one way or the other until Congress is able to deal with it.
Sentence 15: And that is all that I have on my mind this morning.
Sentence 16: I shall try to develop something more for you before the end of the week.
Sentence 17: THE CABINET
Q.
Sentence 18: Do you wish to say anything about [the] Cabinet ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 19: No, there was nothing but routine work connected with the various departments.
Sentence 20: DIPLOMATIC APPOINTMENTS
Q. Does that apply to diplomatic appointments?
Sentence 21: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 22: There may be an exception or two but in the main it applies to all the appointments.
Sentence 23: I would not want to commit myself to it too rigidly, but that is the general rule.
