Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 814

TARIFF INCREASES
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have a little grist this morning.
Sentence 3: First, you can quote this, if you want to, or put it in any form you like.
Sentence 4: I propose to promulgate the tariff increases which were recently recommended by the majority of the Tariff Commission on linseed, milk, cream, and window glass.
Sentence 5: The tariff on linseed is increased from 40 cents a bushel at present, by 16 cents, to 56 cents a bushel; on milk from present tariff of 2 1/2 cents to 3 3/4 cents a gallon; on cream, from present tariff of 20 cents to 30 cents per gallon.
Sentence 6: On window glass increases vary from 5/8 cent per pound to 1 1/2 cents per pound, depending upon size.
Sentence 7: The Tariff Commission is limited in its recommendations to 50 percent of the duty as imposed in the 1922 law, and therefore, some of the increases are less than those recommended by the Ways and Means Committee of the House.
Sentence 8: None of them are in excess of their recommendations.
Sentence 9: I have consulted the congressional leaders as to the desirability of issuing these proclamations, and they agree that the farmers and others should have the benefit of the Tariff Commission's determinations at once.
Sentence 10: Some other reports of the Commission, on which there is either no majority of the Commission or where new facts appear to have developed, have been sent back to the Commission for reconsideration.
Sentence 11: APPOINTMENT OF MAJOR GENERAL MASON M. PATRICK
I have appointed Major General Patrick, retired, a member of the District
Sentence 12: [of Columbia] Public Utilities Commission.
Sentence 13: General Patrick is a distinguished engineer officer, and his last service, as you all know, was as the chief of the Air Service.
Sentence 14: NAVAL REDUCTION PROGRAM
Sentence 15: Now, some things for your information.
Sentence 16: In respect to the questions on the further steps to be taken in the naval reduction program, you will remember that the Preparatory Commission referred the American proposals to the naval powers for study.
Sentence 17: That is the study now in progress.
Sentence 18: There is, therefore, no reason for determining further steps until that examination is further advanced.
Sentence 19: As to further questions about the conference of 1932 that was provided for in the Washington naval agreement, I have no information to give because we have given no consideration to that conference at all.
OTHER QUESTIONS
Now some other questions:
I have no plans for the summer, and shall make none until the situation becomes somewhat clearer.
Sentence 20: No one has been selected for Governor Generalship of the Philippines, nor the Governorship of Porto Rico.
Sentence 21: I have no speaking engagements in the near future except the usual Memorial Day exercises at Arlington.
Sentence 22: I am not yet ready to announce the membership of the Law Enforcement Commission.
