Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 905

NEWS CONFERENCES AND PRESS RELATIONS
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: It seems that the whole press of the United States has given me the honor of a call this morning.
Sentence 3: Before we undertake other questions, I wish to say a word about the press conference.
Sentence 4: I would like the conference to continue as before with the same understandings as those which you had with President Coolidge.
Sentence 5: I wish, further, your cooperation on further development of these conferences.
Sentence 6: As you know, the relations of the President and the press have been a matter of development over a number of administrations, starting most actively perhaps under President [Theodore] Roosevelt, going through one experimental stage to another down to the present time.
Sentence 7: By degrees a means has been found for a more intimate relationship, and I have an impression that we might develop it even further in those directions which would assist the press and assist the President.
Sentence 8: I would like to suggest that Mr.
Sentence 9: [John R.] Young, who is the president of the White House
Sentence 10: [Correspondents] Association, make up a committee of the heads of bureaus and services to discuss the matter with me on some early occasion as to how we can further amplify these relations.
Sentence 11: I am anxious to clear up the twilight zone as far as we can between [p.13] authoritative and quotable material on one hand, and such material as I am able to give from time to time for purely background purposes on the other.
Sentence 12: I wish to be of such service as I can in these conferences, and beyond this, in matters of special character that are not of general interest, I would be glad to see any of you from time to time.
Sentence 13: I want you to feel free to make such suggestions as will help me out in that direction.
Sentence 14: Now as to the immediate questions, you will all understand that I am not in a position at so early a moment as this to begin the declaration of a public policy on current issues.
Sentence 15: THE INSURRECTION IN MEXICO
Sentence 16: The questions this morning nearly all relate to the Mexican situation.1 They all relate to the question, or most of them, to the transportation of arms.
Sentence 17: You are aware that there has been an embargo on the shipment of arms to Mexico since January 1924, except under licenses from the Federal Government.
Sentence 18: Those licenses have been issued from time to time for the shipment of arms to the Government of Mexico.
Sentence 19: I see no occasion to change the policy that has been in force during the whole of the last 5 years.
Sentence 20: 1 An insurrection, led by General Jose Gonzalo Escobar, broke out on March 3, 1929.
Sentence 21: Q. Are those licenses issued by the Secretary of State ?
Sentence 22: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 23: By the Secretary of State.
Sentence 24: One other question relates to what other information we may have as to the disturbances.
Sentence 25: We are not now better informed than the press.
Sentence 26: We have nothing, in fact, that we have to add to this as to the revolutionary centers.
Sentence 27: As to this you are probably getting the full volume of that yourself.
Sentence 28: COMMISSION TO STUDY LAW ENFORCEMENT
One other question relates to the time I shall appoint the commission that I mentioned yesterday.
Sentence 29: I notice it is referred to as a prohibition matter.
Sentence 30: It is not.
Sentence 31: It is a question of the whole problem of law enforcement.
Sentence 32: I shall confer with the new Attorney General at an early date as to the constitution of that body.
Sentence 33: QUOTATION OF NEWS CONFERENCE REMARKS
Q.
Sentence 34: Would you consider giving out the text of your remarks as to the relations between the President and the press ?
Sentence 35: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 36: Well, I do not think I should.
Sentence 37: There is no very great public interest in it.
Sentence 38: Q.
Sentence 39: Yes, I think it is.
Sentence 40: It is a new point of view, Mr. President, over a period of years--and it will read very well.
Sentence 41: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 42: That is encouraging from a friend.
Sentence 43: If you think it is of any help, go ahead.
Sentence 44: I would like for Mr. Young to go ahead with an arrangement of some sort so that we can confer.
Sentence 45: I generally wish to see us develop a relationship between the press and the President that will be helpful and feasible in the proper conduct of affairs and at the same time of maximum assistance to you.
Sentence 46: I have no revolutions to propose, but I think, out of experience, we can accomplish something from time to time and probably in the course of 50 years develop it to perfection.
Sentence 47: Q.
Sentence 48: You want it understood, Mr. President, that the present rules are to be observed, and that you are not to be quoted directly or indirectly?
Sentence 49: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 50: That is the rule.
Sentence 51: Q. Only when a transcript is given out it is to be quoted ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 52: I have no objection to your writing it yourselves.
Sentence 53: I leave it to you to present it in what you think a perfectly fair fashion.
Sentence 54: Q.
Sentence 55: I understand that you will have a transcript made of these particular remarks.
Sentence 56: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 57: We will have a transcript made.
Sentence 58: Q.
Sentence 59: We can use that as coming directly from you ?
Sentence 60: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 61: Yes.
