Sentence 1: 1929 The Presidents News Conference 839

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have a number of questions that bear chiefly on the business situation.
Sentence 3: I have some other questions, but I will confine myself to that one subject this time.
Sentence 4: CONFERENCES OF BUSINESS LEADERS AND PUBLIC OFFICIALS
I have during the last week been engaged in numerous conferences with important business leaders and public officials with view to coordination of business and governmental agencies in concerted action for continued business progress.
Sentence 5: I am calling the middle of next week a small preliminary conference of representatives of industry and agriculture and labor to meet with the Secretaries of the Treasury, Commerce, Labor, and Agriculture, and the Chairman of the Federal Farm Board to develop some concerted definite steps.
Sentence 6: For instance, one of the results of the speculative period through which we passed in recent months has been the diversion of capital from the security market with the consequent lagging in the construction work of the country.
Sentence 7: The postponement of construction during these past months not only in buildings but in railways and public utilities, and in municipal, State, and Federal public works creates a fairly definite reserve that permits of prompt action in expansion.
Sentence 8: And that situation is further assured by the very strong cash position of the industries throughout the country.
Sentence 9: The magnificent work of the Federal Reserve System, and the inherently sound condition of the banks has already brought about a decrease in interest rates and the assurance of abundant capital, and it is the first time such a result has been so speedily attained in any other similar circumstance.
Sentence 10: Market booms develop acute overoptimism and with a corresponding reverse into acute pessimism.
Sentence 11: They are equally unjustified, and the [p.383] sad thing about that all is the number of unfortunate people that are drawn into the vortex with the loss of their savings and reserves.
Sentence 12: But any lack of confidence in the economic future and the basic strength of business in the United States is simply foolish.
Sentence 13: Our national capacity for hard work and intelligent cooperation is ample guaranty of the future of the United States.
Sentence 14: My own experience, however, has been that words are of no very great importance in times of economic disturbance.
Sentence 15: It is action that counts.
Sentence 16: The action of the Federal Reserve Board in establishing credit stability, ample capital, the confidence of the administration in undertaking tax reduction, with the cooperation of both political parties, speaks a good deal stronger than any number of statements.
Sentence 17: The next practical step is to organize coordinated and forward movement in business through the revival of the construction industries, the stimulation of exports and other legitimate directions of business expansion, and to do it in concert with the full use of our powers to assist agriculture.
Sentence 18: Fortunately sound sense and the ability for cooperative action amongst business leaders and Government agencies make all those things possible.
Sentence 19: Q. Has the date for the conference been decided upon ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 20: Middle of next week.
Sentence 21: Q. Mr. President, will any persons who would be qualified to speak for State and municipal projects be called in ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 22: It is very difficult to find such a person.
Sentence 23: We have collected a good deal of information as to the volume of those construction activities which are held in reserve which we can develop at this conference, but it is difficult to find anybody to speak for them as a whole.
Q.
Sentence 24: The idea is to bring them in ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 25: Ultimately.
Sentence 26: This will be a preliminary conference to work out a plan.
Sentence 27: And that is all I have today.
