Sentence 1: 1930 The Presidents News Conference 696

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have a question or two about Santo Domingo.
Sentence 3: I have no information that there is any danger to life or liberty of Americans in Santo Domingo at the present time.
Sentence 4: 1
1
President Hoover referred to disturbances in the interior of the Dominican Republic.
Sentence 5: On the following day, revolutionary forces under Ustrella Urena seized Santo Domingo and president Horacio Vasquez took refuge in the U.S. Legation.
Sentence 6: On March 2, 1930, President Vasquez resigned and Estrella Urena became president.
Sentence 7: GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES
On the discussion that took place yesterday as to expenditures, it should be understood that of the unprecedented drive--and it is unprecedented-that is now in progress for new legislation and for the expansion of the old services, which would entail very large additional burdens on the Government, only a very small percent arises from Members of Congress themselves.
Sentence 8: It originates from the different sections of the country and from various groups and organizations which are vigorously supporting their own projects.
Sentence 9: Many of those projects are worthy and no doubt should be undertaken in time, particularly when plans already in course through legislation are completed, and funds are freed from present obligations.
Sentence 10: I hope that the people at home will realize that the Government cannot undertake every worthy social and economic, and military and naval expansion, or increases in pay to Government employees, or new pension systems, or public improvement projects, and will support the Members of Congress in their cooperation with the administration in an endeavor to keep the expenditures within the resources of the Government.
Sentence 11: We have enough resources to take care of the budget and such necessities as the marginal cases of disability in various groups of veterans, and to take care of the speeding up of public works which we have undertaken all over the country with a view to assisting employment and some minor proposals--not minor proposals but proposals of less urgent importance.
Sentence 12: But this is not the time for general expansion in public expenditure.
Sentence 13: Other than that I have nothing.
