Sentence 1: 1930 The Presidents News Conference 738

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have a few questions today which are helpful.
Sentence 3: Anything to stimulate one's mind helps to deliver something to you.
Sentence 4: PUBLIC WORKS AND UNEMPLOYMENT
First is on the drive for increase in construction and improvement work to take up unemployment.
Sentence 5: That is showing most encouraging results, and it looks as if the work undertaken will be larger in 1930 than that in 1929.
Sentence 6: The Department of Commerce has completed the returns from the Governors of 16 States covering the public works to be undertaken by the States and by the counties and municipalities for next year, and they have partial returns from 13 more States.
Sentence 7: It will require probably another 2 weeks to complete the whole of those surveys.
Sentence 8: The total so far reported, including the Federal Government construction work, is about $1,550 million, and in nearly every case is larger than 1929.
Sentence 9: The preliminary estimate of the railways for construction and betterments for 1930 is $1,050 million, and the public utilities is $2,100 million, including the telephones, all of which are larger than 1929.
Sentence 10: The total of these items so far is $4,700 million.
Sentence 11: I will give you a mimeographed note on this so that you will have the figures.
Sentence 12: That $4,700 million does not include the building construction, or the balance of the State programs.
Sentence 13: It does not include the industrial and factory improvements in expansion.
Sentence 14: The latter is under survey by the committee over at the Chamber of Commerce.
Sentence 15: 1
1
National Business Survey Conference.
Sentence 16: The steel companies report this morning that the effect of the drive is showing very clearly in orders, and they are very much beyond any expectation.
Sentence 17: TOPOGRAPHIC MAPS
I have a question: "Is the pending Interior Department appropriation bill carrying only $800,000 for topographic maps, in accord with your program for the completion of the map of the United States in 18 years?"
2
It is not.
Sentence 18: The States must contribute one-half of the cost of that program, and we have a drive coming on to get the States to become more active in their contribution.
Sentence 19: The appropriation is up to the full estimate of what the States are likely to do.
Sentence 20: 2
Sentence 21: The President proposed to expedite the completion of the survey and maps by the Geological Survey and the Coast and Geodetic Survey by reducing the time for completion of the project from approximately 80 to 18 years.
Sentence 22: See 1929 volume, Item 227.
Sentence 23: INDIAN AFFAIRS
I also have a question with respect to the reorganization and progress in the Indian Bureau.
Sentence 24: I have emphasized the necessity for this reorganization by the appointment of Mr.
Sentence 25: [Charles J.] Rhoads as head of the Bureau and Mr.
Sentence 26: [J. Henry] Scattergood as his assistant, and Secretary Wilbur is giving it very particular attention.
Sentence 27: We have presented to Congress a request for $3 million extra in next year's budget, and we are sending up a considerable sum in the deficiency bill to cover the balance of this year.
Sentence 28: The purposes of these increases are mainly to build up the educational and health work amongst the Indians, to give proper direction to educational work, and also to build up industrial improvement.
Sentence 29: The support of the schools and the health program amongst Indians have not kept pace with the depreciated value of money since prewar.
Sentence 30: The amount allowed today for food for Indian children in schools is 20 cents a day, which is about one-half of the amount necessary to maintain a fair state of health.
Sentence 31: We have about 338,000 Indians.
Sentence 32: The broad problem is to train the youth so that they may take care of themselves and their property.
Sentence 33: The Indians, as you know, many of them are possessed of very large properties and they are considerably increasing.
Sentence 34: And it is only through the youth that we can hope to ultimately discharge this problem from the Nation and blend them as a self-supporting people into the Nation as a whole.
Sentence 35: The Indian Bureau is recommending to Congress a number of changes in the laws bearing on Indian affairs, and these recommendations are designed to secure a better administration of their very large properties and to correct many things in the administration of the properties which prevented the development of better citizenship.
Sentence 36: INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION
I also have a question on the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Sentence 37: I regret to say that Commissioner
Sentence 38: [Johnston B.J. Campbell has resigned.
Sentence 39: He has been a distinguished public servant.
Sentence 40: I shall fill that vacancy by some appointment from the Intermountain States.
Sentence 41: At the request of Mr. [Robert M.] Jones, of Tennessee, I shall withdraw his name, as on reconsideration he has concluded that he does not wish to accept the appointment.
Sentence 42: And again in that case the appointment will be made from the South.
Sentence 43: REPAIR OF EXECUTIVE OFFICES
And my final question is on the White House offices.
Sentence 44: It is our intention to repair the present executive offices and make the attic and the roof fireproof this time.
Sentence 45: This can all be done in somewhere between 60 and 90 days.
Sentence 46: A number of Members of Congress and a number of newspapers throughout the country, and other citizens, have proposed a suggestion that we should erect a new and more imposing executive office on some other site.
Sentence 47: That would require 2 or 3 years for design and construction.
Sentence 48: The present offices will serve all purposes for the next few years, and I am particularly anxious to get ahead with the construction of the departmental buildings.
Sentence 49: No doubt the time may come when we will need a more imposing and more dignified executive office, but I would rather get ahead with the departmental buildings in Washington and leave that, if necessary, until the last.
Sentence 50: And that comprises the budget that I have for this occasion.
