Sentence 1: 1930 The Presidents News Conference 739

GENERAL DOUGLAS MACARTHUR
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have decided to appoint General MacArthur as Chief of Staff of the Army on the retirement of General
Sentence 3: [Charles P.] Summerall.
Sentence 4: General MacArthur is recommended by Secretary Hurley, and it, of course, gives me a great deal of pleasure to promote so brilliant a soldier to that position.
Sentence 5: He is the only one of the major generals who has a sufficient period prior to retirement to serve the full period of the 4-year term.
Sentence 6: While there are very eminent gentlemen who outrank him, none of them I believe have 18 months to serve before retirement or at least are short of the full term.
Sentence 7: General MacArthur is in command of the Philippines, as you know.
Sentence 8: At the present moment he is on temporary duty in China, and if you want more data about his career you can find it over at the War Department.
Sentence 9: I am sure General MacArthur will maintain the very high standards set by his many eminent predecessors.
Sentence 10: And I am sure the whole country appreciates the great service of General Summerall and regrets that he has reached the time of life when he must retire from active duty.
Sentence 11: COMMANDANT OF THE MARINE CORPS
I have also decided to appoint General
Sentence 12: [Ben H.] Fuller to Commandant of the Marine Corps on the recommendation of Secretary Adams.
Sentence 13: General Fuller, of course, succeeds General [Wendell C.] Neville--due to the death of General Neville.
Sentence 14: He is also a soldier who has had a long and distinguished career and has been Acting Commandant for some time since General Neville's death.
Sentence 15: THE DROUGHT
I have some questions on the drought.
Sentence 16: That situation has been subject to a great number of conferences during the last 10 days between Secretary Hyde, Chairman
Sentence 17: [Alexander H.] Legge and myself.
Sentence 18: Some days ago the Department of Agriculture was instructed to make a detailed survey of the situation.
Sentence 19: They will publish their report upon it next Monday.
Sentence 20: The information so far indicates a great deal of variation in the effect of the drought--variation between States and between counties in States, and between actual adjoining farms.
Sentence 21: There is no doubt that it is of most serious character in some localities, and that unless it is remedied there will be a great deal of suffering.
Sentence 22: The maximum intensity of the drought seems to lie in a belt following up the Mississippi River from the gulf, up the Ohio and to the coast, approximately along the line of the Potomac.
Sentence 23: The measures of assistance that the Farm Board and the other agencies of the Federal Government should undertake have not yet been determined.
Sentence 24: It is evident already that considerable measures looking towards the movement of feed into that area and possibly of livestock outward will be necessary.
Sentence 25: It is too early to determine the actual precise character of relief, as I have said, either from a human or livestock point of view, and a great deal depends, of course, on the extension of the drought.
Sentence 26: But there will be no stone left unturned by the Federal Government in its assistance to local authorities to deal with the situation.
Sentence 27: I have already asked the railways to investigate the question and determine what measures can be taken from a transportation point of view which will assist.
Sentence 28: And that is all I have this morning.
