Sentence 1: 1930 The Presidents News Conference 790

MINISTER TO CANADA
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have two or three questions today.
Sentence 3: One is about the new Minister to Canada.
Sentence 4: I am not in a position yet to announce the name because we haven't been officially notified by the Canadian Government.
Sentence 5: They seem to have announced it but they have not yet notified us.
Sentence 6: 1
1
Hanford MacNider was the new United States Minister to Canada.
Sentence 7: HYDRAULIC LABORATORY
Also a question about the new hydraulic laboratory, a bill [46 Stat. 327] for which has just passed through Congress.
Sentence 8: That laboratory is due to the persistence of Senator [Joseph E.] Ransdell over the last 8 years, and is to be an important contribution to the solution of water problems in the United States.
Sentence 9: And we will undertake its construction out at the Bureau of Standards at the earliest possible moment.
Sentence 10: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA PUBLIC BUILDINGS PROGRAM
Sentence 11: We had some discussion at Cabinet this morning with regard to the program for improvement in the District, largely with view in that discussion to expediting work here in every direction we can.
Sentence 12: And in the course of these discussions I had before me a memorandum from Assistant Secretary Heath on the progress and character of all of the improvements contemplated in the District.
Sentence 13: I had thought that perhaps it might be of interest to you, and I have had it mimeographed for distribution.
Sentence 14: Secretary Heath's name is not on it, but it comes through his responsibility.
Sentence 15: AMBASSADOR CHARLES G. DAWES
I also have a question about General Dawes' return.
Sentence 16: General Dawes, I understand, is coming over to attend some meetings in connection with the World's Fair at Chicago, where he has been an important factor.
Sentence 17: It has nothing whatever to do with the treaty, and we will all be glad to see him.
Sentence 18: QUESTIONS
Q.
Sentence 19: Mr. President, in what category is this (indicating Heath memorandum ) ?
Sentence 20: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 21: You can quote it.
Sentence 22: Give Secretary Heath credit for it.
Sentence 23: Q. Who will go down to the camp tomorrow ?
Sentence 24: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 25: I haven't a list before me, but Mr. [Lawrence] Richey can give it to you.
