Sentence 1: 1930 The Presidents News Conference 784

MEMORIAL DAY WEEKEND
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have a question about the holiday on Saturday for the Federal employees.
Sentence 3: 1
Inasmuch as it comes between the national holiday on Friday and the following Sunday, the Cabinet this morning concluded that it would be desirable to give a holiday on Saturday, but that it was very undesirable to establish a precedent as we might have a series of days falling between national holidays and Sundays, and that, therefore, the half holiday on Saturday which starts the following week for the summer would be suspended for one week to enable them to catch up with the routine work which they would lose by this arrangement.
Sentence 4: We think the employees would be better satisfied to do it that way and work that Saturday to catch up with the routine work of the Government.
Sentence 5: 1 See Executive Order 5353, Proclamations and Executive Orders, Herbert Hoover, 1929-1933, volume I.
PRISON REFORM LEGISLATION
I have signed the various bills relating to prison reform.
Sentence 6: There are seven of those acts that have been passed.
Sentence 7: The first establishes the two new prisons--the reformatory prison west of the Mississippi and a general prison in the Northeastern States-and calls for an expenditure of about $7 million.
Sentence 8: The next establishing the Parole Board of three members, who will be appointed very quickly by the Attorney General.
Sentence 9: The act providing for the establishment of training and schooling in the prisons for trades and other adaptable work.
Sentence 10: The act providing for the establishment of a hospital for defective delinquents.
Sentence 11: The act providing for the parole of prisoners on a more extensive scale.
Sentence 12: The act authorizing the Public Health to take over the medical work in the prisons.
Sentence 13: And finally, the one providing for Federal probation officers--this had to be sent back to Congress because of faulty drafting--that is on a technical question.
Sentence 14: But those acts provide not only a physical refitting of the whole Federal prison system but a very comprehensive series of prison reforms, so that under those authorities we ought to be able to work out the Federal prison question in a fashion such as has never been undertaken hitherto, taking account both of the physical necessities of delinquents and also putting into action very important moral forces that should be helpful.
Sentence 15: PROHIBITION BUREAU
I have also signed the act
Sentence 16: [Public, No. 273, 46 Stat. 427] providing for the transfer of the Prohibition Bureau from the Treasury to the Department of Justice.
Sentence 17: That goes into effect on the 1st of July.
Sentence 18: Other than that I haven't anything this morning.
Sentence 19: QUESTIONS
Q.
Sentence 20: May I ask you a question, Mr. President ?
Sentence 21: Does that give the holiday on Saturday ?
Sentence 22: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 23: Yes, but work the whole of the following Saturday to catch up.
Sentence 24: Q.
Sentence 25: May I ask, Mr. President, if you have any particular plans for the transfer of Prohibition--any particular appointments--Mr. Lowman and Dr. Doran, will they be transferred from the Treasury ?
Sentence 26: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 27: The Attorney General is now engaged in working out a definite plan for the administration of the Bureau, and has not come to any conclusions yet.
