Sentence 1: 1930 The Presidents News Conference 695

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have no public statement to make.
Sentence 3: I have one or two matters of background.
Sentence 4: EMERGENCY CONSTRUCTION APPROPRIATIONS
One item on the legislation passed yesterday in the Senate.
Sentence 5: 1
It is not for quotation--merely for your own information.
Sentence 6: The deletion of the President's authority to transfer from one item to another in that legislation relieves me of a great deal of responsibility, because I might otherwise become the center of public hearings as to sections, regions, and works.
Sentence 7: I had originally proposed, as you know, that a definite Cabinet committee should be set up for the purpose, but it will produce less actual employment in the next 6 months because it authorizes the appropriations to certain works.
Sentence 8: If it should turn out that preparations are not available in all of those cases, or any delays in any of the items mentioned, it would mean that the appropriation could not be applied.
Sentence 9: So it reduces the actual relief which we can give, to some measurable extent.
Sentence 10: The various items in the bill were proposed before the House committee as an indication of the works which the Government could undertake, rather than things that are not absolutely fixed and certain.
Sentence 11: So that undoubtedly the matter will be planed out in conference.
Sentence 12: I think it is a mistaken understanding of the purposes of that responsibility which the House committee had injected into the bill.
Sentence 13: 1
The administration initially submitted emergency requests totaling $151 million, but the House Appropriations Committee decided that only $110 million of these required immediate action.
Sentence 14: The Senate added another $8 million and, on December 11, passed H.R. 14804.
Sentence 15: Although this measure authorized the expenditure of $118 million for emergency public works, it refused to allow the President to transfer funds from one item to another.
Sentence 16: The House did not accept some of the Senate amendments and restrictions, and, on December 18, the Senate voted to restore the President's discretionary powers and to accept a compromise figure of $116 million.
Sentence 17: The President signed the legislation (Public No. 550; 46 Stat. 1030) on December 20, 1930.
Sentence 18: DROUGHT RELIEF
The Red Cross Central Committee convened this week, and I was very much gratified at their undertaking to continue in the drought section.
Sentence 19: It is very important that we should keep the Red Cross at work in that area.
Sentence 20: They are organized in every county.
Sentence 21: They can take care of a vast amount of assistance that would not be covered by any legislation, and they do it with a sympathetic hand and a local understanding that will be invaluable.
Sentence 22: So that they have made a real contribution.
Sentence 23: If their funds are not sufficient to carry out their work, they are quite prepared to appeal to the country for further funds, and I have no doubt they can command whatever funds are necessary.
Sentence 24: That is indicated by the extraordinarily encouraging responses that the various distress committees, community chests, and unemployment relief committees in the various States are finding in their appeals.
Sentence 25: There has not been a single appeal that has not gone over the top earlier than usual and in larger sums.
Sentence 26: They are finding no difficulty in charity responses in any section of the country to take care of whatever situation arises there.
Sentence 27: During this week I have had the men connected with the various relief committees, community chests, or whatever the local function may be, from Cleveland, Chicago, Pittsburgh, Minneapolis, Buffalo, Kansas City, and some of the smaller towns in to discuss their problems.
Sentence 28: And they have all given unqualified assurance that they are able to take care of their situations over the forthcoming winter.
Sentence 29: It is a tribute to the response which they have found from the public, and some to the ingenuity of the men who are managing these various occasions.
Sentence 30: But in any event, they are finding the problem less difficult than they had anticipated, and they are finding public response to be much better than they had any reason to anticipate.
Sentence 31: That is all I have for this occasion.
