Sentence 1: 1930 The Presidents News Conference 736

UNITED STATES CUSTOMS COURT
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I am able to confirm the appointment of Congressman
Sentence 3: [David H.] Kincheloe of Kentucky as a member of the Customs Court in New York.
Sentence 4: That is a Democratic vacancy, and, as the Court is very much crowded with work, I felt it desirable to make an interim appointment at once.
Sentence 5: Q. Mr. President, you say this appointment is being made now ?
Sentence 6: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 7: Yes.
Sentence 8: COMMISSIONER OF NARCOTICS
I have also appointed Mr.
Sentence 9: [H. J.] Anslinger, who is the Acting Commissioner of Narcotics, to be the Commissioner of Narcotics.
Sentence 10: As you know, he has been the deputy under the old arrangement, and will now become the head of the Bureau that was created by the last session of Congress.
Sentence 11: MISSION TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
I have also asked Mr. Eliot Wadsworth, of Boston, to go to Santo Domingo on a special mission for the Government.
Sentence 12: After consultation with the Santo Domingan Government we thought it desirable to send someone to discuss the whole question of Santo Domingan treaties, with view to development of some financial assistance to Santo Domingo in their reconstruction.
Sentence 13: And Mr. Wadsworth is very much fitted for the work, because he has not only been one of the principal men in the Red Cross, directing the work there, but also, as you know, he has been Assistant Secretary of the Treasury and has had a lot to do with foreign financial adjustments hitherto.
Sentence 14: 1
1
Eliot Wadsworth visited Santo Domingo from October 2 to October 9, 1930.
Sentence 15: On November 21, he submitted a report to the President reviewing the economic and financial of the country and the effects of the September 3 hurricane disaster.
Sentence 16: REPORT ON POST OFFICE LEASES
We have had in hand a report from the Postmaster General on Post Office leases for some time, to which I have been giving study.
Sentence 17: We have completed a resume of it, and will issue you both the resume and the report.
Sentence 18: But as it is a very long and technical document, with a lot of figures and tabulations, it will be more convenient for you to have it released for Thursday morning so as to get it out tomorrow instead of summarizing it.
Sentence 19: So that you will get it some time this afternoon but put a release on it for Thursday morning.
Sentence 20: That is all I have.
