Sentence 1: 1931 The Presidents News Conference 929

GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have received a number of questions about naval expenditure.
Sentence 3: Apparently the press is much more interested in the Navy than they are in the other departments, where equal reduction of expenditure is under consideration.
Sentence 4: I have received the proposals of the high officials of the Navy of their plans for reducing expenditures.
Sentence 5: They are being considered in the light of maintaining efficiency in the Navy itself.
Sentence 6: As I said, such plans are underway in every department of the Government.
Sentence 7: All of these proposals of the departments are part of the process of final working out of the budget.
Sentence 8: No conclusions have been reached as to any particular proposed reduction in expenditure of the departments as yet.
Sentence 9: Final decision will not be reached until the budget is ready for presentation to Congress itself.
Sentence 10: All of the principal officers of the Government are cooperating to bring down expenditures.
Sentence 11: As a matter of fact, the processes of the budget are somewhat different this year from normal in that we have asked the departments to take into full consideration the economic situation of the country and to propose specific methods by which they can cooperate.
Sentence 12: In times when the income of the people is reduced and when taxes and loans stifle economic recovery, there is only one fiscal policy and that is to reduce the expenditure of the Government to the last cent consonant with the obligations of the Government itself.
Sentence 13: There are two difficulties that confront us in reducing expenditures.
Sentence 14: The first is the large proportion of Federal expenditures that are irreducible.
Sentence 15: You will recollect that the interest must be paid on the public debt; statutory reduction of the debt must be continued; the pay allowances, pensions to veterans, pensions to civil servants, and a number of other expenditures are statutory, and they comprise nearly 2 billions of expenditure that is impossible of reconsideration.
Sentence 16: So that any reductions in Government expenditures have to be applied to one-half of the budget.
Sentence 17: The second difficulty is that the Federal Government must make its contribution to expand employment so long as this situation continues.
Sentence 18: That is a little difficult to interpret for the prospect of a budget beginning the 1st of next July.
Sentence 19: I am in hopes that a change in the situation by that time will make it possible for us to lighten up the burden of the Government in that direction.
Sentence 20: I realize that governmental economy as a whole is strongly desired by the public, yet every variety of expenditure has its adherents.
Sentence 21: They are all naturally solicitous that their special project be continued, even in times of national difficulty, and they are somewhat impatient with reductions and deferments and delays of projects.
Sentence 22: Public opinion supports drastic economies in general, and it will need to reach out into every special project and drive.
Sentence 23: And what is more, the public must support the administration--should support the administration in discouragement of special interests who desire to expand services of the Government in these periods.
Sentence 24: The essential services of the Government must and will be maintained, but these are times, when we have a large deficit facing the country, that even meritorious projects must and will be deferred.
Sentence 25: COTTON
I have received word today of the plans worked out by the Southern banks under the leadership in cooperation with the Federal Farm Board in a definite plan for pooling a certain proportion of the cotton crop and financing the farmer members of that pool.
Sentence 26: All of which is constructive action of the type that the country needs.
Sentence 27: That is, that the banking community and the commercial community should join together in cooperation with governmental agencies to solve problems of this character.
Sentence 28: I understand further meetings have taken place in the South in connection with these plans, and I am in hopes that they will meet with
SUCCESS.
Sentence 29: I haven't anything further today that is going on around the Government, but you may find it in the departments if you can.
