Sentence 1: 1931 The Presidents News Conference 693

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I haven't anything myself today, but Secretary Hyde has just been through the whole of the major drought area and he can tell you direct--and much more useful to you than if I told you indirectly-what is going on.
Sentence 3: So I am going to leave the job in his hands.
Sentence 4: INSPECTION OF DROUGHT AREA BY SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE
SECRETARY HYDE.
Sentence 5: Gentlemen, for your information, all of our drought area is covered by the Memphis, St. Louis, and Washington offices.
Sentence 6: I went out and covered St. Louis and Memphis, and then made a rather extended trip out in the field--into Arkansas.
Sentence 7: These drought relief loans have undoubtedly reached the spot.
Sentence 8: All through Tennessee and the northern part of Mississippi and Louisiana, and in Arkansas you can see new garden fences.
Sentence 9: The ground is prepared and they have the seed and the means for making a new crop.
Sentence 10: They are going at it on a better basis than they have been before because one of the requirements of our loans has been that they should put in a garden for the purpose of maintaining the farm family, and that requirement, I am delighted to find, has been followed out so far as I could observe in every case.
Sentence 11: Those gardens are beginning to come through the ground.
Sentence 12: Of course, the crops are not yet visible.
Sentence 13: Planting has not gone very far but the preparation has.
Sentence 14: Now, the extent of this thing may be interesting to you.
Sentence 15: Up until this morning we had made 186,632 separate loans, for an aggregate amount of $27,472,000.
Sentence 16: That is an average of $153 a family.
Sentence 17: In talking to men by the side of the road and driving in to farmhouses and talking to local committees that are interested in the distribution of these loans, I find that there is a very much more hopeful attitude all through the country, not only out on the farms but in the towns.
Sentence 18: I didn't find a single criticism.
Sentence 19: One old fellow by the side of the road did have a criticism to the effect that the Red Cross had not fed too little but that they fed too much.
Sentence 20: So I take it they have done a splendid job all through that part of the country.
Sentence 21: I talked with the head of the Red Cross, with the Extension [Service] directors, and with bankers, and without any exception they were loud in their praise of these seed loans and the Red Cross operations.
Sentence 22: If there are any questions I will be glad to answer.
Sentence 23: A very important feature of that is the fact that they have had some very fine rains out there--not the torrential rain that washes everything out, but nice slow drizzling rain that soaks down into the ground.
Sentence 24: QUESTIONS
Q. How about the livestock ?
SECRETARY HYDE.
Sentence 25: Livestock--they just don't have very much--a pair of mules and perhaps in some rare instances a cow, but that is one of the criticisms of their agriculture out there.
Sentence 26: Q. Do you loan money to buy a cow ?
SECRETARY HYDE.
Sentence 27: No, we can loan money to feed one and are doing that, but if they don't have one they are out of luck.
Sentence 28: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 29: There has been no loss of livestock in that territory ?
SECRETARY HYDE.
Sentence 30: No.
Q. Are those loans made on collateral ?
Sentence 31: SECRETARY HYDE.
Sentence 32: The only collateral with them is the crop to be made.
Sentence 33: Q.
Sentence 34: No difficulty about any of the needy persons putting up collateral ?
SECRETARY HYDE.
Sentence 35: No; we have been very lenient in scanning all loans of $100 or less, and have indulged in rather hopeful optimism about the crop they are going to have.
Sentence 36: Q. Was there any human suffering that you heard about ?
SECRETARY HYDE.
Sentence 37: They didn't tell me of a bit.
Sentence 38: There undoubtedly was some until the Red Cross got in operation.
Sentence 39: There undoubtedly would have been a great deal except for the operation of the Red Cross, but from every quarter I receive the information that that need had been met in a splendid way.
Sentence 40: Q. Does this $27 million about clean up the situation ?
Sentence 41: SECRETARY HYDE.
Sentence 42: I tried to find out something about that but the committees were absolutely undecided.
Sentence 43: One committee reported 95 percent through, another said 75 percent, and another said 40 percent-and I don't know what to say.
Sentence 44: My guess would be that we have made more than half of the loans that will need to be made.
Sentence 45: Q.
Sentence 46: You have $45 million for that purpose ?
SECRETARY HYDE.
Sentence 47: $55 million, that includes the agricultural.
Sentence 48: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 49: You have $65 million altogether.
Sentence 50: SECRETARY HYDE.
Sentence 51: Yes.
Sentence 52: We have $10 million set aside for the agricultural credit; $45 million for seed; and $10 million for feed and fertilizer.
Sentence 53: Q. Mr. Secretary, can you tell me anything about the permanence of those agricultural credit operations ?
SECRETARY HYDE.
Sentence 54: We are trying very determinedly to have them settled on a basis of permanence.
Sentence 55: We are finding the committees in the various States working along that same basis.
Sentence 56: We require a little bit of contribution of local credit in order to guarantee a continuing local interest and the type of management that will make them successful.
Sentence 57: We are working very closely with the State committees and the intermediate credit banks that cover these areas.
Sentence 58: Q. Do you calculate that the agricultural credit corporations will be a permanent understructure to the intermediate credit banks ?
SECRETARY HYDE.
Sentence 59: I hope so--yes.
Sentence 60: Q.
Sentence 61: You don't need any further legislation to do that ?
Sentence 62: SECRETARY HYDE.
Sentence 63: No.
Sentence 64: That is the whole purpose of that act.
Sentence 65: And we hope to do it on a basis that will be permanent.
Sentence 66: Mr. Joslin suggests that the question might arise as to whether or not these rains had broken the drought and offered a prospect for a good crop this year.
Sentence 67: I think we can answer very positively--they have broken the drought and if normal precipitation is figured through the season we could say they would have a very fine crop down there.
Sentence 68: That to some extent depends upon what happens hereafter, but there is nothing pessimistic in the present outlook.
