Sentence 1: 1931 Address The Pan American Union

Gentlemen of the Governing Board:
I am glad to be your guest at this special session of the Governing Board of the Pan American Union which you are holding in honor of Pan American Day.
Sentence 2: I recently issued a proclamation,
1
calling upon our people to give this day due observance, and this proclamation has received general approval throughout the country.
Sentence 3: Exercises are being held at this time in public schools and universities and by civic organizations in every section of the Union.
Sentence 4: Pan American Day will become an outward symbol of the constantly strengthening unity of purpose and unity of ideals of the Republics of this hemisphere.
Sentence 5: 1 See 1930 volume, Item 169.
Sentence 6: In the latter part of 1928, I had the privilege of visiting 11 of the countries of Latin America.
Sentence 7: 2
This visit made a deep and lasting impression upon me.
Sentence 8: It was inspiring to observe, at first hand, not only the progress that Latin America is making along social, economic, and cultural lines, but also the important part which the countries you represent are destined to play in world affairs.
Sentence 9: It was clear, too, that the nations of America have everything to gain by keeping in close touch with one another and by developing that spirit of mutual confidence which has its roots in a reciprocal understanding of national aims and aspirations.
Sentence 10: 2 See 1929 volume, Supplement IV.
Sentence 11: Although each of the Republics of this hemisphere possesses problems peculiar to itself, there are certain basic questions relating to democratic progress and social betterment common to us all and in the solution of which we can be most helpful to one another.
Sentence 12: This spirit of mutual helpfulness is the cornerstone of true Pan Americanism.
Sentence 13: The Pan American Union not only symbolizes this spirit, but gives to it concrete expression in many practical and constructive ways.
Sentence 14: It is of the greatest importance that the people of the United States become better acquainted with the history, the traditions, the culture, and the ideals of the other Republics of America.
Sentence 15: To an increasing extent, courses on the languages, literature, and history of the nations of Latin America are being offered in the educational institutions of the United States.
Sentence 16: A similar realization of the importance of becoming better acquainted with the history and development of the United States exists in the countries of Latin America.
Sentence 17: Increasing numbers of students from the countries to the south are being enrolled in the colleges and universities of the United States.
Sentence 18: I cannot emphasize too strongly this important aspect of inter-American relations.
Sentence 19: These cultural currents not only contribute to better international understanding, but also emphasize the essential unity of interest of the American Republics.
Sentence 20: Through the Pan American Society and its branches established in different sections of the country, the importance and significance of the culture of the Latin American nations are being brought home to our people.
Sentence 21: We owe much to the unselfish men who have devoted so much time and energy to this work.
Sentence 22: The activities of the Pan American Society admirably supplement the important work that is being done by the Pan American Union.
Sentence 23: A peculiarly heavy responsibility rests upon the nations of the Western Hemisphere; a responsibility which, at the same time, is a high privilege.
Sentence 24: Richly endowed by nature, we enjoy the great advantage of inhabiting a hemisphere free from the jealousies and antagonisms which have proved such obstacles to progress and prosperity in other sections of the world.
Sentence 25: We have developed an international system based on the principle of equality, combined with a full recognition of the obligations as well as the rights of states.
Sentence 26: The American Republics are today rapidly approaching the time when every major difference existing between them will be settled by the orderly processes of conciliation and arbitration.
Sentence 27: In this respect, the Western Hemisphere has placed an enviable record before the nations of the world.
Sentence 28: From the earliest period of their history, the governments of the Republics of this hemisphere have been earnest advocates of the peaceful settlement of international disputes.
Sentence 29: They have demonstrated their willingness and even eagerness to adopt and apply mediation, conciliation, and arbitration.
Sentence 30: The common purpose to eliminate war and the determination to achieve peace and security represent a major contribution of the Americas to modern civilization.
Sentence 31: The full significance of this achievement is not always realized, for it carries with it heavy obligations to posterity.
Sentence 32: Future progress along these lines can only be assured through constant vigilance and by an unswerving determination to make the union of the American Republics, as now expressed in the Pan American Union, an example to the world.
Sentence 33: We are not attempting in any way to develop a superstate, or to interfere with the freedom of action of any of the states, members of the Union, but rather to develop an atmosphere of good will--a spirit of cooperation and mutual understanding--in which any difference that may arise, no matter how important, will find a ready solution.
Sentence 34: I cordially congratulate you, gentlemen of the Governing Board, on your happy initiative in establishing Pan American Day and, at the same time, I send a message of fraternal greeting, in the name of the people of the United States, to all the inhabitants of our sister Republics.
