Sentence 1: 1931 The Presidents News Conference 685

SALE OF WHEAT TO CHINA
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have some questions this time, so we have some inspiration.
Sentence 3: The first one is on the question of whether there is any limit on the amount of wheat which the Farm Board is willing to dispose of to China for relief purposes.
Sentence 4: 1
The amount of 15 million bushels was suggested from China, but the Farm Board is willing to accommodate the Chinese Government with any amount of wheat; 15 million is not the limit.
Sentence 5: 1
The Federal Farm Board announced on August 20, 1931, that it was ready to negotiate the sale of 15 million bushels of wheat for China.
Sentence 6: The wheat was to be used for relief of refugees from the Yangtze River flood.
Sentence 7: MAJOR GENERAL BUTLER
I have another question as to the application of Major General Smedley Butler for retirement from the Marine Corps.
Sentence 8: 2
I assume that if General Butler wishes to retire the Government will approve.
Sentence 9: The general is a very gallant officer, and I have no doubt that if the country gets into trouble again we can get him back into service.
Sentence 10: 2
In January 1931, Maj. Gen. Smedley D. Butler had accused Italian Prime Minister Benito Mussolini of running down a child with his automobile.
Sentence 11: The resulting controversy led to demands for a court martial of General Butler, which were later dropped.
Sentence 12: General Butler was reprimanded and on August 20, requested permission to resign from the Marine Corps.
Sentence 13: THE PRESIDENT'S ORGANIZATION ON UNEMPLOYMENT RELIEF
I have some questions on the relief organization.
Sentence 14: I have received a very splendid response to the invitations to become members of the Advisory Committee to the Unemployment Relief Organization, as it is called.
Sentence 15: Acceptances have been received from 52 out of the 60.
Sentence 16: Two in addition have declined because of illness, and six more are out on holidays, and we have not been able to reach them yet.
Sentence 17: So that apparently the response will be complete.
Sentence 18: Some typical telegrams from those gentlemen you can see through Mr. Joslin.
Sentence 19: 3
3
Theodore G. Joslin, Secretary to the President.
Sentence 20: We are having a large number of communications from public officials and various organizations, especially those active over the last winter.
Sentence 21: There is a very large amount of reorganization and planning now in progress in preparation for the fall and winter.
Sentence 22: There is a very evident widespread resolution to meet the situation again.
Sentence 23: I cannot speak too highly of the actual results obtained by the multitude of committees and the organization of Federal authorities and others over last winter.
Sentence 24: They had a very large load to carry.
Sentence 25: Whether this will be larger or less than the load of last winter cannot yet be determined, but there is a test--and a very positive test--by which the success of matters of relief can be fairly accurately determined, and that is the state of public health.
Sentence 26: I have had a great many years of experience in dealing with problems of distress and relief, as some of you know, and we have always tested efficaciously in every effort of that kind by the reflex in public health.
Sentence 27: I, therefore, made an inquiry of Surgeon General
Sentence 28: [Hugh S.] Cumming, Chief of the Public Health Service, as to what had been the state of public health over this last winter.
Sentence 29: I will give you that correspondence.
Sentence 30: In brief, it shows that the general mortality, the infant mortality, and, so far as statistics go, they are fairly accurate, the sickness in the country was less in the winter of 1931 than in the winters of full employment of 1928 and 1929.
Sentence 31: The public health has apparently never been better than it has been over the past 6 months.
Sentence 32: In arriving at those results you will see that General Cumming has taken compensation for the shift in contagious diseases and so forth, but generally, the point I wish to make is that it is a most remarkable showing for the effort which the country made last winter and one for which all those organizations are entitled to a very great deal of credit indeed.
Sentence 33: PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYMENT
I have one other question as to the progress of Federal employment in construction work.
Sentence 34: I have had the figures taken out anew and reduced it to a single sentence.
Sentence 35: The people directly and indirectly employed by the Federal Government in construction and maintenance work at the opening of this depression was 180,000.
Sentence 36: They touched 730,000 at the first day of August.
Sentence 37: That number will probably increase some with the increased employment in Federal road building, and it will probably decrease on the road building side with winter, but the construction contracts for public buildings will be in greater activity, and the Supervising Architect's office anticipates that by January they will be employing somewhere from 80,000 to 100,000 more than they are actually employing now.
Sentence 38: And that is all that I have on my docket.
