Sentence 1: 1931 The Presidents News Conference 935

WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE ON HOME BUILDING AND HOME OWNERSHIP
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: A year ago, after a conference with some 20 associations interested in the subject, I undertook to call a general conference on questions of homebuilding and homeownership.
Sentence 3: 1
Growing out of that meeting some 15 to 20 different committees were appointed for investigation of the fact, and those committees are now ready to develop their work still further.
Sentence 4: They represent the substantial people of the country in every branch of that problem, and a major conference will take place on the 5th of December.
Sentence 5: 2
I am giving you here an extended statement in respect to the whole of it which you will have a chance to read without my going over it.
Sentence 6: 1 See 1930 volume, Items 250 and 302.
Sentence 7: 2
The Conference was held December 2-5, 1931.
Sentence 8: APPOINTMENTS
I have a few questions here of background character.
Sentence 9: "Has the President appointed Mr. [Waiter W.] Head, a banker of Omaha, on the Farm Board ?"
Sentence 10: The answer is in the negative.
Sentence 11: "Is the President prepared to announce the appointment of anyone to the vacancies on the Tariff Commission?"
Sentence 12: I am not able to do so at the present time.
Sentence 13: TRADE
"Has the President any plan for the expansion of foreign purchase of American cotton ?"
Sentence 14: There is no definite plan on my part.
Sentence 15: There was a plan some time ago--and this is background--to the bankers that they should arrange a credit basis system for export of cotton to Europe.
Sentence 16: They have taken it up and they are in negotiation both between themselves and the other side.
Sentence 17: I haven't any further information that I can report about it.
Sentence 18: That has not yet been concluded.
Sentence 19: That is all I can enlighten you on that subject.
Sentence 20: I understand that I am supposed to go on the radio tomorrow night for something important--and I haven't myself yet heard of it.
