Sentence 1: 1931 The Presidents News Conference 724

SURGEON GENERAL
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have appointed Mr. Robert U. Patterson to the rank of major general, to be head of the Medical Corps in succession to General
Sentence 3: [Merritte Weber] Ireland, Surgeon General of the Army.
Sentence 4: Major Patterson's career is set out in great detail here for your use.
Sentence 5: ARMY POSTS
About a month ago I asked the General Staff to make a renewed study of the whole question of Army posts from the point of view of gaining the maximum efficiency through the concentration of the Army, and the secondary purpose of economy in the War Department.
Sentence 6: The Staff has insisted for great numbers of years that the Army must be more largely concentrated if it is to be the most effective body, and it becomes even more necessary now in view of the very large mechanization of the Army and the number of subsidiary mechanical services, such as aviation, and so on.
Sentence 7: We have actually abandoned 13 posts during the past 2 years.
Sentence 8: They will probably report 20 or 30 more posts That should be abandoned if we are to have the most effective Army and if we are to accomplish some very considerable economies.
Sentence 9: Now, I have appointed a committee 1 representing the Army, the Department of Justice, the Department of Agriculture, and the [p.245] Veterans' Bureau to study these proposed abandonments and see which of them could be used by other departments of the Government with view to economies in those departments in saving construction and location in the necessary expansions in their work.
Sentence 10: And there are some of these posts that might be of very great value to the States for institutional purposes--educational or otherwise.
Sentence 11: It would relieve the feeling of deprivation of the local communities if these posts could be substituted for public purposes.
Sentence 12: So that we are endeavoring to work out the program in such a fashion as to create as little hardship as possible.
Sentence 13: 1
Sentence 14: The committee, to study future disposition of abandoned posts, consisted of: Brig.
Sentence 15: Gen. Robert E. Callan, War Department General Staff; Sanford Bates, Department of Justice; A. F. Woods, Department of Agriculture; and Louis H. Tripp, Veterans' Admisistration.
Sentence 16: By September 1931, it had inspected 53 posts scheduled for abandonment and recommended the transfer of 9 of them to other departments.
Sentence 17: DROUGHT LOANS
One other item--I have a report from the Secretary of Agriculture this morning showing that out of the $67 millions appropriated for drought loans in one form or another, $47 million has been loaned to 380,000 different persons, and that probably consummates the total program.
Sentence 18: Of the $10 million allocated to assist agricultural credit corporations, only $471,000 has been called for.
Sentence 19: Of the $45 million appropriated for seed and fertilizer purposes, 39 million has been loaned.
Sentence 20: Of the 10 millions allocated for agricultural rehabilitation, about $5,140,000 has been loaned.
Sentence 21: And of the 2 millions which was reappropriated from a former fund applicable to the Southeastern States, about 1½ million have been loaned.
Sentence 22: In a few minutes we will give you a mimeographed statement of not only all those points but the States to which this money has been loaned, in detail.
Sentence 23: And I think that is the whole of my budget this morning.
Sentence 24: PUBLIC BUILDING PROJECTS
We have partially mimeographed the statement as to public buildings which I promised you.
Sentence 25: We had expected to have it for this conference, but it will probably be 2 o'clock before the mimeographers will have [p.246] it done.
Sentence 26: You will then get in detail the location of every building in the United States which has been authorized by Congress, and what stage of advancement it is now in, so that you will have some material for every State and town in the country.
Sentence 27: As I said, you will have that at 2 or 3 o'clock, this afternoon.
Sentence 28: That is presumed to be for Wednesday morning papers.
