Sentence 1: 1931 The Presidents News Conference 705

ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have appointed Mr. Harvey H. Bundy, of Boston, as Assistant Secretary of State, to the vacancy created by the promotion of Under Secretary
Sentence 3: [William R.] Castle.
Sentence 4: We will give you a small statement about Mr. Bundy's antecedents to help fill up the columns if they need it.
Sentence 5: IMMIGRATION
I have secured from the Acting Secretary of Labor a statement as to the movement of immigration during the last 3 months that I thought might be of some interest to you.
Sentence 6: You will recollect that last autumn I gave the direction that all immigrants who might in our present unemployment situation become public charges should be refused visas.
Sentence 7: That direction, of course, did not apply to the preferred classes.
Sentence 8: The result has been that the average of the first 3 months, that is, the 3 months of a year ago, were 12,605 per month.
Sentence 9: That has now been reversed to a net departure of 3,551 per month during the average of the last 3 months.
Sentence 10: So that the effect on unemployment is considerable.
Sentence 11: That would make a difference of somewhere in the neighborhood of 150,000--more than that--175,000 people in the United States looking for employment--with its operation over a year.
Sentence 12: However, the figures are here in detail and may be of some interest to you.
Sentence 13: NATIONAL FORESTS
Something over a year and a half ago I suggested to the Secretary of Agriculture that the Bureau of Forests would contribute both to national conservation and at the same time to the commercial situation in the wood industries, if they would make no more important leases or if they would slacken down on leasing the national forests.
Sentence 14: I have given a renewed direction to the Secretary narrowing it even further than that which we had previously put into force so as to practically cease the use of the national forests except where leases are already extant, and except in the case of Alaska for pulpwood and small transactions not over $500.
Sentence 15: The latter in order to protect the farmers.
Sentence 16: I don't think it will have any gigantic effect on the timber industry, but at least it shows good will.
Sentence 17: Otherwise than that I have nothing.
