Sentence 1: 1931 The Presidents News Conference 687

THE MORATORIUM
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I am glad to announce that the American proposal for 1 year's postponement of all intergovernmental debts and reparations has now been accepted in principle by all of the important creditor governments.
Sentence 3: The terms of acceptance by the French Government are, of course, subject to the approval of the other interested powers, for whom the American Government naturally cannot speak.
Sentence 4: Without going into technical terms, while certain payments are made by Germany for reparations account, the substance of the President's proposal is retained as the sums so paid are immediately reloaned to Germany.
Sentence 5: The technical difficulties arising from many complicated tuitional agreements, which involve the aggregate payment between governments of over $800 million per annum are now in the course solution by the good will and earnest cooperation of government leaders everywhere.
Sentence 6: The American part of the plan is, of course, subject to the approval by Congress, but I have received the individual assurances of support from a very large majority of the Members of both Senate and House, irrespective of political affiliations.
Sentence 7: The acceptance of this proposal has meant sacrifices by the American people and by the former Allied Governments, who are with all others suffering from worldwide depression and deficits in governmental budgets.
Sentence 8: The economic load most seriously oppressing the peoples of Germany and Central Europe will be immensely lightened.
Sentence 9: While the plan is particularly aimed to economic relief, yet economic relief means the swinging of men's minds from fear to confidence, the swinging of nations from the apprehension of disorder and governmental collapse to hope and confidence of the future.
Sentence 10: It means tangible aid to unemployment and agriculture.
Sentence 11: The almost unanimous support in the United States is again profound evidence of the sincere humanity of the American people.
Sentence 12: And in this year, devoted to economic upbuilding, the world has need of solemn thought on the causes which have contributed to the depression.
Sentence 13: I need not repeat that one of these causes is the burdens imposed and the fears aroused by competitive armament.
Sentence 14: Contemplation of the past few weeks should bring a realization that we must find relief from these fundamental burdens which today amount to several times the amount of intergovernmental debts.
Sentence 15: Q. Mr. President, does that mean that the official connection of the United States with your proposal is ended excepting the sanction of Congress ?
Sentence 16: Is it over with so far as we are concerned ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 17: I will talk to you on that a moment for background.
Sentence 18: The French proposal we will get over the wire in a few minutes from Paris.
Sentence 19: We have had the text by telephone but are not quite sure enough of its details to be certain about it.
Sentence 20: We know its import.
Sentence 21: The French naturally raise questions which solely concern the European participants in reparations.
Sentence 22: They are not matters of agreement with the American Government.
Sentence 23: That requires that the various participants in reparations must get together and come to a conclusion on the French proposals.
Sentence 24: I do not anticipate any great difficulty in that, as a matter of fact.
Sentence 25: But so far as we are concerned, in case they come to an agreement or they accept the French basis of anything of that kind, we have no great further official relationship to it.
Sentence 26: We simply pass it over to the State Department.
Sentence 27: Q. Is this to be taken as a proclamation of the proposal, Mr. President ?
Sentence 28: Does this mean it becomes effective as of July 1 ?
Sentence 29: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 30: It is effective July 1.
Sentence 31: Q. Mr. President, would you continue your narrative of this background ?
Sentence 32: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 33: On what other points ?
Q. I thought perhaps you had something more to say in explaining it.
Sentence 34: When will these experts come together ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 35: It may be that the heads of governments may need to get together.
Sentence 36: There will have to be some discussion between them.
Sentence 37: I don't want to anticipate the announcement.
Sentence 38: It means beginning 1 year after the deferred year, and in 10 annual installments.
Sentence 39: Q. July 1, 1933, instead of 1934 ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 40: Yes, and go for 10 years.
Sentence 41: Q. Mr. President, is American ratification contemplated in a special session of Congress or at the regular session in December ?
Sentence 42: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 43: We can do it in December.
Sentence 44: There is no actual payment due the United States until December (?)
1
with one small exception.
Sentence 45: 1
Sentence 46: The question mark appeared in the transcript.
Sentence 47: Foreign debt payments were due on December 15.
Sentence 48: Q. Mr. President, could you indicate how the matters of payments in kind were finally settled?
Sentence 49: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 50: It is referred to the committee of experts to work it out within the spirit of the President's proposal.
Sentence 51: It is a very technical business you will find if you get into it.
Sentence 52: Q. Mr. President, are the payments in kind for which contracts have already been made by any process of exclusion to be reloaned to Germany ?
Sentence 53: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 54: That is not settled.
Sentence 55: What we said was a committee of experts to get together and work out the modification of the payment in kind plan in such a fashion as to make it conform to this proposal.
Sentence 56: Q.
Sentence 57: You said the text of this note would be available--sent by cable or State Department?
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 59: By cable.
Sentence 60: Q. Would it be exact to say that your proposal is already in effect?
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 62: I think it is morally in effect.
Sentence 63: Q.
Sentence 64: As of the first of July ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 65: As of the first of July.
Sentence 66: Probably what makes it effective is that nobody would put in money.
Sentence 67: Q.
Sentence 68: What constitutes effectiveness ?
Sentence 69: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 70: So far as we are concerned, of course, as already stated, when those powers settle on arrangements--when they become final--that would be submitted to Congress, and then it becomes effective.
Sentence 71: As a matter of fact, the moral effect is that I doubt anybody is going to pay anything the first of July anyway.
Sentence 72: Q.
Sentence 73: The French will make an announcement, Mr. President, won't they ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 74: Either they or Mr. Mellon--I don't know which.
Sentence 75: Q.
Sentence 76: I mean on behalf of the French Government ?
Sentence 77: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 78: I could not tell you.
Sentence 79: Q. Is there to be a joint statement ?
Sentence 80: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 81: An understanding in the form of a written memorandum.
