Sentence 1: 1931 The Presidents News Conference 723

INTERNATIONAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I haven't anything of news character today at all.
Sentence 3: There are some matters in the background of the meeting of the International Chamber of Commerce that may be of interest to you, but I have no statement to make either direct or indirect--simply for your own information.
Sentence 4: There are a great many distinguished men coming to that conference, and it is likely to be a very illuminating session on the whole question of the business depression and international relations that have grown out of it--international economic relations.
Sentence 5: We are hoping to give them a very warm welcome.
Sentence 6: The American businessmen are making large preparations for their reception, and we are all in hopes that they will develop valuable discussions--and I believe they will.
Sentence 7: That body has accomplished a great deal in matters that are sometimes regarded as of secondary importance in international economic relations, but they have served to promote a great many things that have a great value--problems of double taxation, handling of international air transport, commercial arbitration in its international phases, reduction of red tape in handling of international trade through customs regulations, and scores of problems of that kind.
Sentence 8: They have made a very profound accomplishment.
Sentence 9: They will no doubt discuss--and I have a question or two here that raises it in my own mind--problems of international finance.
Sentence 10: They have on their programs the question of silver and international loans.
Sentence 11: And I wanted you to know for your own information that there is no change in the policy of the American Government in respect to our international debt.
Sentence 12: That subject may be up for discussion.
Sentence 13: I don't know how far they will get with it.
Sentence 14: Some of the papers that have been submitted do enter upon that subject.
Sentence 15: Further than that I don't see any news openings for you for the end of this week.
Sentence 16: QUESTIONS
Q. Mr. President, are you going to let us have these remarks of yours ?
Sentence 17: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 18: No, I am giving you this as background only.
Sentence 19: Q.
Sentence 20: I thought it might help a little in the foreground.
Sentence 21: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 22: No.
Q.
Sentence 23: Mr. President, could you give us any guidance as to the American attitude on proposals to restore international prosperity by currency control, such as spoken of in the British press a good deal--through the central banks ?
Sentence 24: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 25: Our policy in that matter is not changed at all.
Sentence 26: You know the attitude we have taken about it.
Sentence 27: We are glad to cooperate, but we have no governmental connection with it.
Sentence 28: Q. Mr. President, when will your speech be available ?
Sentence 29: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 30: I don't know.
Sentence 31: I have tried to get a minute to do it.
Sentence 32: I have dictated three or four pages, and that is as far as I have got.
Sentence 33: It is very short.
Sentence 34: It will be confined to words of welcome and two or three serious subjects.
Sentence 35: But it will not be a document that will require any great telegraphic space.
