Sentence 1: 1931 Radio Address Lincolns Birthday 0

BY THE MAGIC of the radio I am able to address several hundred public gatherings called this evening throughout our country in celebration of the birth of Abraham Lincoln.
Sentence 2: It is appropriate that I should speak from this room in the White House where Lincoln strived and accomplished his great service to our country.
Sentence 3: His invisible presence dominates these halls, ever recalling that infinite patience and that indomitable will which fought and won the fight for those firmer foundations and greater strength to government by the people.
Sentence 4: From these windows he looked out upon that great granite shaft which was then in construction to mark the country's eternal tribute to the courage and uncompromising strength of the founder of this Union of States.
Sentence 5: Here are the very chairs in which he meditated upon his problems.
Sentence 6: Above the mantelpiece hangs his portrait with his Cabinet, and upon this fireplace is written:
Sentence 7: "In this room Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation of January 1, 1863, whereby 4,000,000 slaves were given their freedom and slavery forever prohibited in these United States.
Sentence 8: "
It was here that he toiled by day and by night that the Union created by the fathers might be preserved and that slavery might be ended.
Sentence 9: Most of the business of this room in Lincoln's time was concerned with the conduct of war against destructive forces.
Sentence 10: From here he could oft hear the sound of approaching cannon, and yet the thought that he should desert his place, this city and this house, never entered into his considerations.
Sentence 11: Lincoln was a builder in an epoch of destruction.
Sentence 12: It was his assignment by Providence to restore the national edifice, so badly shattered in its social and economic structure that it had well-nigh failed.
Sentence 13: His undying idealism and inflexible resolve builded a new temple of the national soul in which our succeeding generations have since dwelt secure and free and of a richer life.
Sentence 14: And if Lincoln could today resurvey the scene of his country he would find a union more solidly knit and more resolute in its common purpose than ever in its history.
Sentence 15: He would find the States of the South recovered from the wounds of war, inspired by the splendid leadership of a new generation to a brilliant renaissance of industry and culture.
Sentence 16: He would indeed find the consummation of that great moving appeal of his inaugural in which he said: "The mystic chords of memory stretching from every battlefield and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone all over this broad land will yet swell the chorus of the Union when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature."
Sentence 17: It was indeed a great prophecy.
Sentence 18: If Lincoln were living, he would find that this race of liberated slaves, starting a new life without a shred but the clothes in which they stood, without education, without organization, has today by its own endeavors progressed to an amazingly high level of self-reliance and well-being.
Sentence 19: To Lincoln it would have been incredible that within a lifetime the millions of children of these slaves would be graduating from the public schools and colleges; that the race could have builded itself homes and accumulated itself a wealth in lands and savings; that it should have carried on with success every calling and profession in our country.
Sentence 20: While the dramatic period of Lincoln's life was engrossed with these tremendous problems, yet he was a man of many interests.
Sentence 21: He was a believer in party government.
Sentence 22: He realized, as we also must realize, that fundamentally our whole self-government is conceived and born of majority rule, and to enable the majority to express itself we must have party organization.
Sentence 23: Lincoln led in founding the Republican Party and he gloried in his party.
Sentence 24: His tradition has dominated it to this day.
Sentence 25: It was and is a party of responsibility; it was and is a party of the Constitution.
Sentence 26: While many of the issues of that time are dead and gone, some of our present problems were equally vivid in his day.
Sentence 27: You will find Lincoln addressing the country in strong and urgent support of the protective tariff with vivid declamation against the party opposing that policy.
Sentence 28: You will find him advocating Federal Government aid in internal development of waterways, rivers and harbors, and transportation.
Sentence 29: You will find him pounding at the public mind against nullification and for adherence to constitutional processes of government.
Sentence 30: No stronger statement has ever been made than that of Lincoln upon obedience to law as the very foundation of our Republic.
Sentence 31: In Lincoln's day the dominant problem in our form of government turned upon the issue of States rights.
Sentence 32: Though less pregnant with disaster, the dominant problem today in our form of government turns in large degree upon the issue of the relationship of Federal, State, and local government responsibilities.
Sentence 33: We are faced with unceasing agitation that the Federal Government shall assume new financial burdens, that it shall undertake increased burdens in regulation of abuses and in the prosecution of crime.
Sentence 34: It is true that since Lincoln's time many forces have swept across State borders and have become more potent than the State or local community can deal with alone either financially or by jurisdiction.
Sentence 35: Our concept of Federal, State, and local responsibilities is possible of no unchangeable definitions and it must shift with the moving forces in the Nation, but the time has come when we must have more national consideration and decision of the part which each shall assume in these responsibilities.
Sentence 36: The Federal Government has assumed many new responsibilities since Lincoln's time, and will probably assume more in the future when the States and local communities cannot alone cure abuse or bear the entire cost of national programs, but there is an essential principle that should be maintained in these matters.
Sentence 37: I am convinced that where Federal action is essential then in most cases it should limit its responsibilities to supplement the States and local communities, and that it should not assume the major role or the entire responsibility, in replacement of the States or local government.
Sentence 38: To do otherwise threatens the whole foundations of local government, which is the very basis of self-government.
Sentence 39: The moment responsibilities of any community, particularly in economic and social questions, are shifted from any part of the Nation to Washington, then that community has subjected itself to a remote bureaucracy with its minimum of understanding and of sympathy.
Sentence 40: It has lost a large part of its voice and its control of its own destiny.
Sentence 41: Under Federal control the varied conditions of life in our country are forced into standard molds, with all their limitations upon life, either of the individual or the community.
Sentence 42: Where people divest themselves of local government responsibilities they at once lay the foundation for the destruction of their liberties.
Sentence 43: And buried in this problem lies something even deeper.
Sentence 44: The whole of our governmental machinery was devised for the purpose that through ordered liberty we give incentive and equality of opportunity to every individual to rise to that highest achievement of which he is capable.
Sentence 45: At once when government is centralized there arises a limitation upon the liberty of the individual and a restriction of individual opportunity.
Sentence 46: The true growth of the Nation is the growth of character in its citizens.
Sentence 47: The spread of government destroys initiative and thus destroys character.
Sentence 48: Character is made in the community as well as in the individual by assuming responsibilities, not by escape from them.
Sentence 49: Carried to its logical extreme, all this shouldering of individual and community responsibility upon the Government can lead but to the superstate where every man becomes the servant of the State and real liberty is lost.
Sentence 50: Such was not the government that Lincoln sought to build.
Sentence 51: There is an entirely different avenue by which we may both resist this drift to centralized government and at the same time meet a multitude of problems.
Sentence 52: That is to strengthen in the Nation a sense and an organization of self-help and cooperation to solve as many problems as possible outside of government.
Sentence 53: We are today passing through a critical test in such a problem arising from the economic depression.
Sentence 54: Due to lack of caution in business and to the impact of forces from an outside world, one-half of which is involved in social and political revolution, the march of our prosperity has been retarded.
Sentence 55: We are projected into temporary unemployment, losses, and hardships.
Sentence 56: In a nation rich in resources, many people were faced with hunger and cold through no fault of their own.
Sentence 57: Our national resources are not only material supplies and material wealth but a spiritual and moral wealth in kindliness, in compassion, in a sense of obligation of neighbor to neighbor and a realization of responsibility by industry, by business, and the community for its social security and its social welfare.
Sentence 58: The evidence of our ability to solve great problems outside of Government action and the degree of moral strength with which we emerge from this period will be determined by whether the individuals and the local communities continue to meet their responsibilities.
Sentence 59: Throughout this depression I have insisted upon organization of these forces through industry, through local government and through charity, that they should meet this crisis by their own initiative, by the assumption of their own responsibilities.
Sentence 60: The Federal Government has sought to do its part by example in the expansion of employment, by affording credit to drought sufferers for rehabilitation, and by cooperation with the community, and thus to avoid the opiates of government charity and the stifling of our national spirit of mutual self-help.
Sentence 61: We can take courage and pride in the effective work of thousands of voluntary organizations for provision of employment, for relief of distress, that have sprung up over the entire Nation.
Sentence 62: Industry and business have recognized a social obligation to their employees as never before.
Sentence 63: The State and local governments are being helpful.
Sentence 64: The people are themselves succeeding in this task.
Sentence 65: Never before in a great depression has there been so systematic a protection against distress.
Sentence 66: Never before has there been so little social disorder.
Sentence 67: Never before has there been such an outpouring of the spirit of self-sacrifice and of service.
Sentence 68: The ever-growing complexity of modern life, with its train of evermore perplexing and difficult problems, is a challenge to our individual characters and to our devotion to our ideals.
Sentence 69: The resourcefulness of America when challenged has never failed.
Sentence 70: Success is not gained by leaning upon government to solve all the problems before us.
Sentence 71: That way leads to enervation of will and destruction of character.
Sentence 72: Victory over this depression and over our other difficulties will be won by the resolution of our people to fight their own battles in their own communities, by stimulating their ingenuity to solve their own problems, by taking new courage to be masters of their own destiny in the struggle of life.
Sentence 73: This is not the easy way, but it is the American way.
Sentence 74: And it was Lincoln's way.
Sentence 75: The ultimate goal of the American social ideal is equality of opportunity and individual initiative.
Sentence 76: These are not born of bureaucracy.
Sentence 77: This ideal is the expression of the spirit of our people.
Sentence 78: This ideal obtained at the birth of the Republic.
Sentence 79: It was the ideal of Lincoln.
Sentence 80: it is the ideal upon which the Nation has risen to unparalleled greatness.
Sentence 81: We are going through a period when character and courage are on trial, and where the very faith that is within us is under test.
Sentence 82: Our people are meeting this test.
Sentence 83: And they are doing more than the mediate task of the day.
Sentence 84: They are maintaining the ideals of our American system.
Sentence 85: By their devotion to these ideals we shall come out of these times stronger in character, in courage, and in faith.
