Sentence 1: 1931 The Presidents News Conference 686

CONSERVATION OF WATERFOWL
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have some questions on which I can give you a little information.
Sentence 3: The first is with regard to shortening the season for duckshooting.
Sentence 4: I have signed a proclamation [Proc. 1965] shortening the season as recommended by the Department of Agriculture.
Sentence 5: This action is backed by 43 conservation associations and State game commissions.
Sentence 6: It is opposed by three such organizations and also by three large ammunition manufacturers.
Sentence 7: However, the proclamation has gone forth.
Sentence 8: PRESIDENT'S ORGANIZATION ON UNEMPLOYMENT RELIEF
I have a question about additional members asked to join Mr. [Walter F.] Gifford's advisory committee.
Sentence 9: There are five more so far: Mr. James F. Bell of Minneapolis, Conrad Mann of Kansas City, P. G. Spillsbury of Phoenix, Arizona, Owen D. Young of New York, and S. P. Bush of Columbus, Ohio.
Sentence 10: BRITISH FINANCIAL CRISIS
Sentence 11: There are some other matters on which I can give you some information for your own use, not for quotation, but merely acceding to demands on some questions as to facts in order that you may be correctly informed.
Sentence 12: The first is with regard to the statement that this Government has been in communication with the British in respect to the financial crisis.
Sentence 13: 1
There is not a word of truth in that statement.
Sentence 14: It is not a matter in which the American Government could properly make any communication to the British Government and I have had no such communication either by telephone or otherwise.
Sentence 15: 1 Gold withdrawals from Great Britain had created a financial crisis and, on August 25, 1931, led to the creation of a new National Government pledged to economy measures.
Sentence 16: The President denied the report of the London Daily Herald charging that the Federal Reserve Board and President Hoover had dictated a change in British policy and helped to bring about the fall of the Labour Cabinet.
Sentence 17: Next is the story that arises from a British newspaper that the Federal Reserve banks have made stipulations bearing on the change in the British ministry policies.
Sentence 18: The New York Federal Reserve Bank some time ago granted credit to the Bank of England.
Sentence 19: That credit has not been exhausted and they have received no further requests for credits from England and have had no communication of such nature.
Sentence 20: SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
I am asked to give Mr. Mellon's impressions of Europe.
Sentence 21: You will have to get those from Mr. Mellon.
Sentence 22: TRANSPORTATION OF WHEAT TO CHINA
Sentence 23: I have a large number of questions about the transfer of Farm Board products by sea.
Sentence 24: This is solely a question for the Farm Board which makes its own arrangements.
Sentence 25: I think most commercial people will realize that when goods are sold on which the other fellow pays the freight, he also determines the shipping.
Sentence 26: The Farm Board is not paying the freight in this instance but I understand they have been trying to help out American shipping.
Sentence 27: And that comprises the budget this morning.
