Sentence 1: 1931 The Presidents News Conference 713

PORTO RICO
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: The people of Porto Rico have made magnificent progress in stir-government and the establishment of democratic institutions.
Sentence 3: The government is ably conducted by Porto Rican-born citizens and there are today only three or four important officials upon the island who were not born there.
Sentence 4: I am advised from every quarter in the island that there would not be a popular vote of 5 percent in favor of independence.
Sentence 5: The people are making progress from the effects of hurricane, drought, and the business depression, all of which were imposed upon a century-old poverty.
Sentence 6: They are showing great courage and initiative in this rehabilitation.
Sentence 7: They will this season, in large degree, have recovered their crops.
Sentence 8: The devastating effect of the hurricane is still represented in the thousands of one-room shacks housing whole families.
Sentence 9: The most constructive contribution of the Federal Government is to continue and expand the present policies of aid to and cooperation with their institutions in education, health, better adaptation of agriculture, expansion of industry and markets.
Sentence 10: THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
The Virgin Islands may have some military value sometime--opinion upon this question is much divided.
Sentence 11: In any event when we paid $25 million for them we acquired an effective poorhouse comprising 90 percent of the population.
Sentence 12: The people cannot be self-supporting either in living or government without the discovery of new methods and resources.
Sentence 13: The purpose of the transfer of the administration from the naval to a civil department is to see if we can develop some form of industry or agriculture which will relieve us of the present costs and liabilities in support of the population or the local government from the Federal Treasury or from private charity.
Sentence 14: Viewed from every point except remote naval contingencies it was unfortunate that we ever acquired these islands.
Sentence 15: Nevertheless, having assumed the responsibility, we must do our best to assist the inhabitants.
Sentence 16: QUESTIONS
Q. Will the present policy towards Porto Rico be continued ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 17: Yes.
Sentence 18: Porto Rico, I think, stands as a great credit to the American people.
Sentence 19: It has a population of nearly 900,000; under self-government it would probably have a living standard nearly as high as any people in the Western Hemisphere.
Sentence 20: There are 760 police in the island.
Sentence 21: That includes all forms of peace officers.
Sentence 22: They are showing a great ability in building up a substantial state, they are making fine progress and are sending many men abroad.
Sentence 23: Many graduates in many South American countries and many in the United States from Porto Rican institutions.
Sentence 24: In other words some groups in Porto Rico are capable of a great deal of development.
Sentence 25: Q. Will anything be done about the suggestion of using Porto Ricans in our diplomatic service ?
Sentence 26: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 27: The Porto Ricans have an ambition to enter our diplomatic service.
Sentence 28: I was a great deal struck with the many capable men there, especially the judges, and the chief justice.
Sentence 29: He is a man of very considerable parts.
Sentence 30: We could use them to advantage.
Sentence 31: We should give them an opportunity in our diplomatic service.
Sentence 32: Q. Is there any line of industry to be developed in Porto Rico ?
Sentence 33: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 34: The work of Governor Roosevelt has uncovered many lines of development.
Sentence 35: The next step is to build up more industries.
Sentence 36: They have taken up very systematically all kinds of production which might be increased.
Sentence 37: They have developed a large market.
Sentence 38: I was very much encouraged by a very large order received from one of the mail order houses in the United States.
Sentence 39: They have established agencies in New York City.
Sentence 40: That is one line of attack.
Sentence 41: They need someone to look after their interests outside.
Sentence 42: We need a transformation in the Department of Agriculture to have a number of tropical plants developed in Porto Rico which look very promising.
Sentence 43: These may help out in the Virgin Islands as well.
Sentence 44: The sugar business in the Virgin Islands is practically gone.
Sentence 45: They do not produce one-third as much an acre of what is produced in other parts of the West Indies, and probably has no hope at all.
Sentence 46: The harbor of St. Thomas is not likely to be built up like it was before the war.
Sentence 47: Steamers are now going to other ports where they can take on oil.
Sentence 48: I do not see much hope for the restoration of the business of their harbor.
Sentence 49: It must follow some other direction.
Sentence 50: Intensive [omission] appears as a means of possible livelihood.
Sentence 51: Q. Is there any suggestion that we might give up the Virgin Islands ?
Sentence 52: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 53: I don't think so.
Sentence 54: We have reduced expenses by doing away with the Governor at St. Johns.
Sentence 55: We thought it was not necessary to maintain more than two posts where the total collected taxes amounted to only $700 a year.
Sentence 56: Q. How about the idea of transferring Porto Rico to the Interior Department ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 57: I have not given any great thought to that question.
Sentence 58: Q. Do the same arguments in general apply to Porto Rico as to the Virgin Islands ?
Sentence 59: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 60: No, because Porto Rico, with the assistance of the Government, is able to carry on.
Sentence 61: The Interior Department has to be a daily nurse to the Virgin Islands.
Sentence 62: We have not given any serious thought to this transfer.
Sentence 63: So far as the actual Federal relationship is concerned we have more relationship through military departments than we do through any other one agency.
Sentence 64: We have barracks made up of Porto Rican recruits with American officers.
Sentence 65: It was not until this last winter that we extended any of the Federal services to Porto Rico.
Sentence 66: The island has been a success from a commercial view.
Sentence 67: We have a large trade with Porto Rico.
Sentence 68: The trade comes to us, of course.
Sentence 69: I think our exports are $60 or $70 million a year.
Sentence 70: Q. Is there any question of American competition ?
Sentence 71: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 72: The Department of Agriculture has been looking for tropical plants to supplement our agricultural products.
Sentence 73: That would not be a very serious competition.
Sentence 74: Q. Is there likely to be an increase in Federal aid ?
Sentence 75: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 76: Yes.
Sentence 77: I suppose we will spend $5 or $600,000 here in that direction.
Sentence 78: Q. Has the Governor been doing anything to start new industries ?
Sentence 79: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 80: Yes.
Sentence 81: He has been very successful.
Sentence 82: They have been extending their markets and have been making some shipments to England of bananas, with success.
Sentence 83: They are stimulating the banana trade.
Sentence 84: All together the situation is satisfactory and full of hope.
Sentence 85: Q. Is there any possibility of growing rubber in Porto Rico ?
Sentence 86: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 87: I have no idea.
Sentence 88: I could not tell you.
Sentence 89: They would have grown it before this.
Sentence 90: They have some success in Haiti.
Sentence 91: American companies have gone there and worked 15 or 18,000 acres.
