Sentence 1: 1932 Address The Gridiron Club 4

Gentlemen of the Gridiron Club and your guests:
I know that I represent every guest in expressing to the Gridiron Club our deep appreciation for its generous hospitality, its entertainment, and its high educational effort this evening.
Sentence 2: As your president has said, just 20 years ago I was first a guest of the Gridiron Club.
Sentence 3: I have been accorded all the grades of honor from the end of the table in the far corner to this close approach to the throne.
Sentence 4: The seat at the end of the corner table is the most comfortable one.
Sentence 5: But from all these points of vantage I have been enabled to make a long-time analysis of both the ostensible and secret objectives of the Gridiron Club.
Sentence 6: The club seems to me to have three high purposes.
Sentence 7: The first purpose is purely the joy of hospitality, enriched by the stimulation of spirit from the wit and satire which is designed to test the apparent sense of humor of public officials.
Sentence 8: The second purpose is the passing record of Washington through the eyes of the fourth estate.
Sentence 9: In the painting of pictures of passing political incidents the colors are often badly mixed.
Sentence 10: The drawing is cubist and mostly futuristic in its motif.
Sentence 11: But these pictures are like sand pictures, and other forms of primitive medicine making.
Sentence 12: They are of immense comfort to the makers and impressiveness to the believers.
Sentence 13: But you may be happily assured that they are erased with the passing of the night, and aside from the performers no man can tell you tomorrow what the jokes were.
Sentence 14: A third and more subtle purpose of the club appears to be that of careful and pointed instruction to Government officials and political leaders as to their errors and shortcomings.
Sentence 15: This instruction is enforced by the threatening gridiron which, like the traditional schoolroom switch, hangs here behind the teacher's desk.
Sentence 16: These educational facilities of the Gridiron Club thus include a regular and rigid enforcement by way of roasting.
Sentence 17: I am reminded of the annals of the early Christian Church, which contains the record of the singular case of one of the pioneer Christians.
Sentence 18: The man was zealous in the practice of the true faith, and for that reason became unpopular in his community.
Sentence 19: The citizens finally decided he was a nuisance and should be gotten rid of.
Sentence 20: Their methods were in accord with the custom of the times.
Sentence 21: Having no modern gridiron, they trussed him up at full length on a spit ordinarily used for roasting whole beeves and put him over a great bed of red-hot coals.
Sentence 22: They were careless, however, about turning the spit, with the result that the true Christian was roasted only on one side.
Sentence 23: He bore his sufferings with remarkable composure and good nature.
Sentence 24: But at last he felt moved to remark to his neighbors that he believed he was now thoroughly done on one side and would they mind turning him over.
Sentence 25: And although during these past centuries the gridiron process has perhaps improved its subtlety, there have been occasions in the past few years that seem to me to bear some analogy to the days of old.
Sentence 26: But speaking seriously I am deeply indebted as is every guest for the many happy memories of these events and their manifold proof that life is not all serious.
Sentence 27: You will expect me to discuss the late election.
Sentence 28: Well, as nearly as I can learn, we did not have enough votes on our side.
Sentence 29: During the campaign I remarked that this administration had been fighting on a thousand fronts; I learned since the campaign that we were fighting on 21 million fronts.
Sentence 30: We had a good fight, and when our opponents recover from the glow of victory and undertake to perform the sad rites of burying their dead promises, that will be another story.
Sentence 31: And the Republicans will, no doubt, take care of that.
Sentence 32: I notice in the press a generous suggestion that my countrymen owe to me some debt.
Sentence 33: On the contrary, the obligation is mine.
Sentence 34: My country gave me, as it gives every boy and every girl, a chance.
Sentence 35: It gave me schooling, the precious freedom of equal opportunity for advancement in life, for service and honor.
Sentence 36: In no other land could a boy from a country village without inheritance or influential friends look forward with unbounded hope.
Sentence 37: It gave to me a certain measure of success in my profession.
Sentence 38: It conferred upon me the honor of administering the world's response to the appeal of hundreds of millions of afflicted people during and after the war.
Sentence 39: It gave me high place in the war councils of the Nation.
Sentence 40: My country called upon me to represent it in the reconstruction of human and economic relations between former enemies on the Continent of Europe after the armistice.
Sentence 41: It gave me an opportunity for service in the Cabinets of two Presidents.
Sentence 42: It gave me the highest honor that comes to man--the Presidency of the United States.
Sentence 43: For this fullness of life, for the chance to serve in many emergencies, I am indebted to my country beyond any human power to repay.
Sentence 44: Only a few rare souls in a century, to whose class I make no pretention, count much in the great flow of this Republic.
Sentence 45: The life stream of this Nation is the generations of millions of human particles acting under impulses of advancing ideas and national ideals gathered from a thousand springs.
Sentence 46: These springs and rills have gathered into great streams which have nurtured and fertilized this great land over these centuries.
Sentence 47: Its dikes against dangerous floods are cemented with the blood of our fathers.
Sentence 48: Our children will strengthen these dikes, will create new channels, and the land will grow greater and richer with their lives.
Sentence 49: We are but transistory officials in Government whose duty is to keep these channels clear and to strengthen and extend their dikes.
Sentence 50: What counts toward the honor of public officials is that they sustain the national ideals upon which are patterned the design of these channels of progress and the construction of these dikes of safety.
Sentence 51: What is said in this or in that political campaign counts no more than the sound of the cheerful ripples or the angry whirls of the stream.
Sentence 52: What matters is that God help the man or the group who breaks down these dikes, who diverts these channels to selfish ends.
Sentence 53: These waters will drown him or them in a tragedy that will spread over a thousand years.
Sentence 54: If we lift our eyes beyond the scene of our recent battle, if we inspect the fate of other democracies under the pressures of the past 3 years, the outstanding demonstration is the complete necessity in modern democracies of maintaining two strong political parties.
Sentence 55: Block government among several parties leads not only to negative policies but to destruction of all responsibility which carries government always on the brink of chaos.
Sentence 56: Coalition government leads inevitably to danger and often to revolution for it offers the people no alternative through which to explode their emotions.
Sentence 57: To carry on competent government there must be a strong and constructive opposition.
Sentence 58: The Republican Party now has that duty to the American people.
Sentence 59: But opposition cannot function without political organization, constancy to principles, and loyalty of men to their party.
Sentence 60: Likewise, no party in power can serve the country unless the members show loyalty, courage, and a willingness to accept the responsibility of government.
Sentence 61: Nor does this preclude that cooperation which far transcends partisanship in the face of common danger.
Sentence 62: That great common danger is still in the economic field both at home and abroad.
Sentence 63: During the past 2 years we have been fighting to maintain the very foundations of our own stability.
Sentence 64: That front can be held if no mistakes are made.
Sentence 65: Today one of the visible evidences of our economic problem is the impassable bridge between the debtor and the creditor.
Sentence 66: Either prices must rise or debts be reduced.
Sentence 67: Not one but many economic forces have brought this about.
Sentence 68: To increase prices we must give consideration to the continuing effect of the foreign situation.
Sentence 69: The vicious spiral of economic and social instability has been continuing in the great majority of foreign countries.
Sentence 70: If we would make a full and secure recovery, if we would prevent future relapse, we must consider major action in cooperation with other nations.
Sentence 71: But that cooperation does not imply that it shall be accomplished at the expense of the American people.
Sentence 72: Others must bear their just burdens, and open hope to the people of the United States.
Sentence 73: To fulfill these tasks we must maintain a solidarity in our Nation.
Sentence 74: We must maintain that cooperation at home which while it maintains party responsibility yet rises above partisanship.
Sentence 75: The new administration has my good wishes; it has the good wishes of every American for in their success lies the welfare of our country.
Sentence 76: I would not close without again expressing my appreciation for the generous hospitality that I have received from your hand on so many occasions.
