Sentence 1: 1932 The Presidents News Conference 873

CONFERENCE OF FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICT BANKING AND INDUSTRIAL COMMITTEES
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I haven't anything to announce today.
Sentence 3: I thought I would give you some background as to this forthcoming conference which begins its meetings on Thursday and continues Friday and part of Saturday.
Sentence 4: That is not a general economic conference or a conference to deal with the whole economic situation.
Sentence 5: It is a conference of the business and industrial committees which were created in each Federal Reserve district somewhere about 2 months ago.
Sentence 6: And the problems to be dealt with are not general problems but the problems with which those committees have been dealing.
Sentence 7: They run in two major directions.
Sentence 8: The first is, now that the credit strain of the world is very much moderated, to get our credit machinery functioning again in all directions so as to better sustain commerce and industry and agriculture.
Sentence 9: The credit strain, as you know, has for more than 15 months resulted in the great restriction of credits from the banks and from all quarters.
Sentence 10: That strain began to be relieved in the month of June and has gone on progressively relaxing, but there are a great many derangements through the country, and it is proposed at this conference to coordinate all of the activities, so far as possible, of governmental agencies and the private agencies throughout the country to take up and solve the points of disarrangement.
Sentence 11: There are many industries which have not been able to obtain credits even though they had the normal credit terms.
Sentence 12: That varies in different parts of the country.
Sentence 13: It has been dealt with in different fashion by these committees, and we want to secure a coordinated and definite program for the whole country.
Sentence 14: The other objective of the conference is to develop plans by which these committees may interest themselves in the spread of employment.
Sentence 15: Some of the committees have taken that up in their different districts with considerable success.
Sentence 16: The committees represent the banks and leading merchants and leading employers of the districts, and we are seeking to enlist the systematic activities of those committees throughout the country.
Sentence 17: The committee on the Pacific coast, for instance, has been most active in that direction and has developed a great deal of experience.
Sentence 18: The spread of employment has been going on, as you know, ever since the depression began 20 years ago, by a great many industries.
Sentence 19: Others have not felt the pinch and have not entered into it, and the idea is to spread employment even further than it has been done hitherto.
Sentence 20: Those are the two major objects of this conference.
Sentence 21: It is a limited area.
Sentence 22: It is hoped that we may have benefits to agriculture by straightening out the difficulties which arise, especially in credit for the handling of livestock, which has been a very acute difficulty, and feeder cattle, et cetera, and the better handling of credits for the movement of agricultural commodities into the normal channels of trade both at home and abroad.
Sentence 23: It will deal with the question of systematic organization of credits for industrial establishments, et cetera.
Sentence 24: I want to get it clear that this is not a general conference.
Sentence 25: It is a conference of these already established agencies, and the various elements of the community are represented only so far as those committees represent them; that where problems are taken up and organization is suggested, then the various groups will be brought in to cooperate.
Sentence 26: In other words, this is the setting up of organization in different activities under committees who will follow up, and those committees will then embrace a wider-spread distribution of activities into different groups than this conference will represent.
Sentence 27: Take the case of the question of the spread of employment.
Sentence 28: Discussions have taken place with organized labor by the men engaged in the preliminary work, and the labor world will be brought into the active pursuit of these policies when the interest of employer and so on has been secured.
Sentence 29: And the same thing applies to the agricultural groups.
Sentence 30: But it is not a general economic conference.
Sentence 31: It is a conference of these agencies that are already going with a view to uniformity and positive organization and with a view to taking on many more problems where they will come up within this area.
Sentence 32: I notice a good deal of misunderstanding about it from a number of people, who believe that either they or some representative from their group should be invited.
Sentence 33: If we attempted to cover the whole economic gamut of the United States we would have a conference of several thousand people, whereas we are endeavoring to cover One segment of our battle at a time.
Sentence 34: Q. Mr. President, will you personally address this gathering at any time ?
Sentence 35: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 36: Yes, I am going to attend the conference.
Sentence 37: And it will be addressed by Mr. Mills and Mr. Meyer and Senator Pomerene, Mr. Fort, probably Mr. Bestor, the Secretary of Commerce, 1 and the other officials who have a part in the field being covered by the conference.
Sentence 38: Those addresses will be by way of explanation of the functions of the different Government agencies that bear on the problems which the conference is to consider.
Sentence 39: After that point the conference becomes a conference of the private institutions and individuals in the development of coordination of their activities and coordination of Government activities.
Sentence 40: 1
The President referred to Secretary of the Treasury Ogden L. Mills, Federal Reserve Board Governor Eugene Meyer, Reconstruction Finance Corporation Chairman Atlee Pomerene, Federal Home Loan Bank Board Chairman Franklin W. Fort, Federal Farm Loan Commissioner Horace Paul Bestor, and Secretary of Commerce Roy D. Chapin.
Sentence 41: Q. Will this be made the opening day?
Sentence 42: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 43: It will all be short.
Sentence 44: Q.
Sentence 45: Who will preside?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 46: I am going to open it.
Sentence 47: An executive committee has been provided.
Sentence 48: As I announced some days ago that the chairmen of the business and industrial committees of the different Federal Reserve districts have been called in the day before, that is on Thursday, to organize the conference and to lay out a program.
Sentence 49: And on that executive committee will be the heads of the different Government agencies so that that committee will present to the conference on Friday as soon as the general statements are over, a setup and program for the conference itself.
Sentence 50: Q. Mr. President, in referring to spread of employment does that mean 5-day week or some consideration like that ?
Sentence 51: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 52: No.
Sentence 53: The 5-day week as an .accurate description is proving to be somewhat misleading.
Sentence 54: Industries have to approach the problem, each and every one of them, in a fashion adapted to its own work.
Sentence 55: Some of them use the 5-day week for individuals, and still operate 7 days a week.
Sentence 56: Others only operate 2 days in the week now.
Sentence 57: Others of them operate 3 days.
Sentence 58: Others of them have shorter shifts, and some industries run on four shifts of 6 hours each.
Sentence 59: So we are not using the statement 5-day week.
Sentence 60: Q. Mr. President, will you meet with the executive committee on Thursday ?
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 62: No.
