Sentence 1: 1932 The Presidents News Conference 899

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have had a number of questions and certain discussions with members of the press, in which I have been asked if I would discuss with you, purely for background, something of the economic situation and something of the fiscal policies and generally discuss a number of things merely for your information, as I see them.
Sentence 3: And so I determined to try it out and see whether I could be of any help to you on clearing up some current questions.
Sentence 4: This is wholly for background purposes.
Sentence 5: In an unedited statement of this kind I hesitate to be quoted, because I am dealing with some very difficult questions.
Sentence 6: PUBLIC CONFIDENCE
Sentence 7: As you know, the economic situation in the country is largely one of public confidence.
Sentence 8: It has reached that stage where the great economic forces of liquidation have more or less spent themselves, and liquidation has gone, in fact, entirely too far.
Sentence 9: In the middle of February, we had had a very distinct reestablishment of confidence and courage throughout the country.
Sentence 10: We have had during the last 3 weeks a considerable setback.
Sentence 11: It has arisen from a number of apprehensions which I feel are overexaggerated and to a great extent unwarranted.
Sentence 12: But these are times, of course, when sentiment is easily influenced, and it is time when we peculiarly need the courage and confidence of the business world, that is, the banking world and the production world-everybody right down to the smallest merchant and the smallest manufacturer.
Sentence 13: That is the group that must have the leadership in recovery.
Sentence 14: It is their activities that bring back employment.
Sentence 15: And there are a good many causes which have discouraged them.
Sentence 16: As I stated, I think they are overexaggerated.
TAX BILL
The tax bill, of course, contains items which are discouraging, and its passage was a good deal delayed and the debate has had some bad effects.
Sentence 17: Any tax bill of course--or this tax bill at least--contains a number of sales taxes on special commodities.
Sentence 18: It contains also tariffs.
Sentence 19: The tendency of any action by the Congress on commodities, irrespective of what the nature of the action may be, tends to slow up business in those particular lines of activity.
Sentence 20: That is one thing that bears on the present situation.
Sentence 21: The essential thing is to get the tax bill through at the earliest possible moment, and I am confident that the sentiment in the Senate and in the House is one for an immediate straightening out of the rough edges of the tax bill and for the most expeditious passing of it.
Sentence 22: I do not believe there is going to be any more than just the normal and necessary delay.
Sentence 23: In fact, I am confident that Congress is going to put forward unusual exertion to close the matter up.
Sentence 24: That is the encouraging phase of that situation.
Sentence 25: BONUS BILL
Another one of the contributions to the setback in confidence has been the agitation of the bonus, of course, but any canvass of the Senate will show that it is impossible for the bill to become taw.
Sentence 26: A possible canvass of the House would indicate the same thing at the present stage, and so the public alarm on that is entirely ill-placed.
Sentence 27: BANKING CRISIS
Sentence 28: And another apprehension which we should have got by, and in fact are by if the public only realized it, and that is with regard to the banking situation.
Sentence 29: The results attained by the Reconstruction Corporation have reached a stage that pretty clearly indicate that the major banking crisis of the country is now past.
Sentence 30: That is indicated by the fact that in the 9 weeks prior to the time when the Corporation came into action we had a net number of 655 banks closed.
Sentence 31: That is net after deducting the number that were reopened in the same period.
Sentence 32: And the net amount of deposits in those banks that were closed were $478 million.
Sentence 33: Now, taking the average size of deposits in the United States, that means that something over 1,200,000 people were deprived of their immediate resources in that period of 9 weeks, which is a very considerable number of families if you apply it in that direction.
Sentence 34: In the 9 weeks since the Corporation has been operating, after we deduct banks reopened, there were only 77 banks closed, and total deposits of $25 million.
Sentence 35: In other words, there has been a reversal of the situation by 95 percent.
Sentence 36: Another indication of the passage of the banking crisis is the fact that in the 9 weeks before the anti-hoarding campaign, which coincided with the Reconstruction Corporation, we had about $400 million of currency withdrawn from the banks, whereas in the 9 weeks since we not only have had no withdrawals of balance, but have gained $250 million of returned currency.
Sentence 37: Both of these facts should indicate that we are by the major banking crisis and that it is behind us.
Sentence 38: BALANCING THE BUDGET
And, of course, another fundamental contribution to the stability of the situation is the obvious acceptance by everybody that the budget must be balanced.
Sentence 39: In the discussion over the form of taxes and the form of reduction of expenses, we sometimes lose sight of the fundamental thing and that is the enormous importance of the general acceptance that the budget is and will be balanced.
Sentence 40: What is more, the sentiment has grown definitely in the last 2 weeks for the acceptance of a drastic and I think an omnibus economy bill which will attack that quarter of expenditure which cannot be reached except by amendment and alteration of the existing laws.
Sentence 41: In other words, outside of the field that can be reached by appropriations, either through executive action or the appropriations committees.
Sentence 42: The economies that can be reached in that direction are apparently close to $200 million, and that added to the $369 million already cut from the budget before it was sent to Congress, and then again to add cuts in progress by the appropriations committees which look like somewhere in the neighborhood of $100 million, even if we accept the postponements we have an aggregate from all of over $650 million--somewhere between $650 million and $700 million reduction in Federal expenses.
Sentence 43: If you consider the fact that nearly 60 percent of the expenditures of the Federal Government are fixed commitments of the Government in the shape of debts and obligations for pensions and subsidies to the States, outstanding contracts, et cetera, et cetera, you will see that we have only 40 percent of the Federal expenditure to attack, and that out of that area of 40 percent we are securing a reduction of nearly 40 percent of the 442).
Sentence 44: That is the most drastic reduction of governmental expenses that I think has been undertaken by any government in any time in any one year.
Sentence 45: Q. Mr. President, isn't that 40 percent of 30 percent ?
Sentence 46: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 47: Fixed expenditures about 60 percent.
Sentence 48: As a matter of fact, the fixed amount is somewhere between $2,500 million and $2,600 million out of the $4,300 million of budget.
Sentence 49: The fact that the Government is facing the reduction of expenditures, that Congress is facing it, and that the administration is facing it, ought to contribute to the restoration of confidence in the country as a whole.
Sentence 50: FURLOUGH PLAN FOR GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES
Incidentally, I might mention one or two things of the plan proposed by the administration, which may or may not be accepted by the Congress, but which have a bearing on the economic situation.
Sentence 51: The plan as we propose it, and which has been accepted by some members of the Economy Committee, establishes the principle of the 5-hour day, which is going to be a public necessity in the recovery from this depression to a large extent.
Sentence 52: I mean the 5-day week, or some similar working period.
Sentence 53: So, using the 5-day week as a slogan really is not an accurate way of approaching the subject.
Sentence 54: It is really shortening of working hours and a larger distribution of labor.
Sentence 55: In the plan which we put forward we gain rather more actual economy, but of equal importance, if the appropriation bills go through as they are now cut by the Congress and by the administration, we are going to be compelled to discharge anything from 5,000 to 10,000 Government employees in the midst of unemployment, and if this plan were accepted, we would hold all of those people.
Sentence 56: But even beyond that, and of rather more importance from the point of view of employment, in order to work that plan we will have to take on somewhere from 30,000 to 35,000 more Government employees.
Sentence 57: In other words, we will have to take on a list of substitutes in all of the Government departments because the Government must continue to function.
Sentence 58: The Government does not go on a 5-day week.
Sentence 59: In many of its branches we could not give a 30-day holiday or 5-day week in that someone has to take his place in a great many of the branches of the Government.
Sentence 60: But in the balance between the amounts which we have for retaining employees that would otherwise be discharged and by taking on further employees, as against the saving that we make by going on the 5-day week and the comparable staggering of salaries, we wash out somewhere between $75 million and $80 million of savings.
Sentence 61: That is rather a side issue to mention, but I thought I might make that clear as I go along.
Sentence 62: FEDERAL TAX REVENUES
Sentence 63: There is another phase of the general situation which I find considerably overlooked in public discussion which bears on the whole subject of Government economy.
Sentence 64: I am not entering on a partisan debate.
Sentence 65: But the general impression of the public is that the Government has been extravagantly run and that the cause of our difficulties is that.
Sentence 66: It may be that we are subject to that charge.
Sentence 67: We have been running in a period when all the world wanted to spend something and all the world has been down to persuade Congress to do it within the last 10 years.
Sentence 68: But disregarding that altogether, the financial difficulties of the Government are due to the drop in income receipts.
Sentence 69: Only one figure illustrates that, in that the income tax has averaged in a normal year somewhere about $2,400 million, and we are budgeting only for $860 million for next year.
Sentence 70: In other words, we are anticipating a drop in all our calculations of approximately $1,400 million in Government income in one category of tax receipts alone.
Sentence 71: In fact, the total drop in Government income that we are basing our budget on is about $1,500 million.
Sentence 72: So the necessity of increase in taxes to reduce expenses does not arise from our extravagances.
Sentence 73: It arises from our loss of income--another practical fact.
Sentence 74: There is one phase of that--the proposed increase of tax is somewhere about $1,200 million.
Sentence 75: I gave you the wrong figure a moment ago.
Sentence 76: The total drop of income is about $2 billion.
Sentence 77: We are proposing to increase taxes to bring in a revenue of $1,200 million.
Sentence 78: So that we are not asking the taxpayer to make up the whole of this deficit--we are meeting the deficit caused by the fall in income to a very considerable degree by cutting expenses and adjustments of one character and another.
Sentence 79: CREDIT EXPANSION
Sentence 80: And finally, there is one other reason for renewed encouragement and that is one of the greatest undertakings made in support of the situation in the Government taken by the Federal Reserve System during this week in the policy of concerted, organized credit expansion.
Sentence 81: That is, through the expansion of open market operations and the drive for expansion of credit through the banks to business and industry.
Sentence 82: In a large sense, therefore, I feel that the wave of pessimism over the past 2 or 3 weeks has been overdone in the face of the actual situation that exists, which contains many fundamentally favorable aspects.
Sentence 83: That is all I have to say.
Sentence 84: FURLOUGH PLAN FOR GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES
Q. Mr. President, may we refer to that 5-day week ?
Sentence 85: When you speak of washing out at $75 million to $80 million of possible saving, does that mean an increase over the net budget (?) 1 to that extent ?
Sentence 86: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 87: No, there will be a decrease in our expenses for salaries of about $75 million to $80 million.
Sentence 88: We take on the additional employees within that.
Sentence 89: They will be part-time employees.
Sentence 90: 1
The question mark appears in the transcript.
Sentence 91: Q. Mr. President, does the 5-day week operate throughout the Federal service ?
Sentence 92: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 93: We have to make some exceptions.
Sentence 94: Generally speaking it does, but in order to work it you understand that it can only apply directly to the per diem employees, and it is applied there by doing away with the equivalent of the Saturday forenoon work.
Sentence 95: At the end of a year it would mean about one-half of 52 weeks, which would amount to 26 days of holiday without pay.
Sentence 96: Then we make the equivalent in the salary basis by making a calendar month of holiday without pay, which amounts to almost exactly the same thing as the 5-day week although we would not apply it in one single stretch of 30 days in most positions.
Sentence 97: Q. Mr. President, your remarks regarding the necessity of staggering work as essential to pull us out--is that intended to apply only to the Government establishment or to industry ?
Sentence 98: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 99: The manufacturing industries of the country are today running anywhere from a 2- to 4-day week, and as we recover from this depression, which we are going to someday, the normal course would be for them to put on more days work per week for their employees, and the normal course would be to stop at the point when they have gotten to the 5-day week, or its equivalent in hours, until such a time as we have taken up the slack of all the unemployment.
Sentence 100: And I think the feeling is that if the Government entered into the same field of thought it might help in establishing that entire situation.
