Sentence 1: 1933 Press Conference 24

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: Well, what is the news?
Sentence 3: Q.
Sentence 4: That is what we would like to know.
Sentence 5: THE PRESIDENT: I think everything is all quiet.
Sentence 6: No message written yet, no Budget message.
Sentence 7: We are still scribbling lots of figures and essays and so forth all over sheets of paper.
Sentence 8: I am living with sheets of paper. . . .
Sentence 9: Q.
Sentence 10: Can you tell us anything about the conference this afternoon with General Johnson, Senator Nye and Senator Borah?
Sentence 11: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 12: Oh, I think so.
Sentence 13: It was merely a preliminary conference to discuss some of the new problems which have been raised through the actual operation of N.R.A.
Sentence 14: We have had two worries, not only Senator Borah and Senator Nye, but General Johnson and myself.
Sentence 15: The two worries are that the operation of some of the codes may work out in such a way that big business will be benefited to the detriment of the little businesses.
Sentence 16: The other problem is that certain developments would tend to show that some industries believe that the Sherman Anti-trust Law principle has, in some mysterious way, been abolished by the N.R.A.—which, of course, is not so.
Sentence 17: What we are seeking is the method of answering those two questions.
Sentence 18: The first is the adequate protection of the little fellow against the big fellow, and the second is the retaining of the principles of the Sherman Anti-trust Law.
Sentence 19: That is about as far as we got.
Sentence 20: It was just a preliminary discussion as to how to go about it.
Sentence 21: Q. Will that lead to legislation or be largely administrative correction without legislation?
Sentence 22: THE PRESIDENT: So far as the protection of the little fellow goes, it can probably be done administratively.
Sentence 23: So far as the clarification of the retention of the Sherman Anti-trust Law goes, we may have to make the language of N.R.A. a little bit more clear by legislation.
Sentence 24: Q. Mr. President, does this first proposal contemplate taking more of the small retailers out than were taken out in this order that was put through some time ago?
Sentence 25: How do you intend to tackle that administrative problem?
Sentence 26: THE PRESIDENT: Probably through the setting up of some better machinery for the protection of the little men.
Sentence 27: As I say, we haven't got to the details of it yet.
Sentence 28: We did discuss the possibility of some board that would act toward that problem in the same relative way as Senator Wagner's Board has functioned in regard to disputes between capital and labor.
Sentence 29: Q.
Sentence 30: Can you tell us what the disputes are between those two classes of business men?
Sentence 31: What is the dispute between the business men?
Sentence 32: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 33: A lot of little fellows have thought that they might be forced out of business.
Sentence 34: We want to avoid that; and there will have to be somebody assigned for them to go to.
Sentence 35: Q. Go to for modification of the code?
Sentence 36: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 37: No, to go to to check up their particular case.
Sentence 38: In a great many cases, probably the majority, it would not involve modification of the code itself.
Sentence 39: It would be merely a question of saying what is a fair practice.
Sentence 40: Q. Mr. President, doesn't this bring up the inevitable fact that the operation of the N.R.A. must drive the marginal producer or business man out of business?
Sentence 41: THE PRESIDENT: That is a pretty broad subject and there is a lot in it.
Sentence 42: Well, the simplest way of putting it is to give an illustration.
Sentence 43: What are you going to do in the case of shoes?
Sentence 44: There are enough shoe factories in the country today to turn out 900 million pairs of shoes a year and we wear only about 325 million pairs of shoes a year.
Sentence 45: There is a certain limit to the number of shoes a human being can wear in the course of a year.
Sentence 46: What shall we do in case you decide to go into the shoe business tomorrow and start a brand new factory?
Sentence 47: You only complicate things.
Sentence 48: Well, those are the things we have not solved yet.
Sentence 49: Q.
Sentence 50: If I am a little fellow, a little inefficient fellow, I am going to be the fellow that comes to the Board.
Sentence 51: THE PRESIDENT: You might be a big fellow.
Sentence 52: Inefficiency is not necessarily based on size. . . .
Sentence 53: Q. Are you going to recommend legislation on the stock market?
Sentence 54: THE PRESIDENT: I haven't done a thing about it.
Sentence 55: I believe a lot of people are looking it up and checking on it—members of both Houses and the Commerce Committee and I don't know who else.
Sentence 56: There are lots of people checking on it.
Sentence 57: Q. Do you contemplate some legislation?
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT: I cannot tell you because I haven't a thing on it as yet. . . .
Sentence 59: Q.
Sentence 60: Can you tell us whether you discussed with Senators Borah and Nye a proposition of either of them accepting a place on this Board that may possibly be created to discuss anti-trust legislation?
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT: We only mentioned it casually.
Sentence 62: I think we are all agreed that they could not and should not— no member of Congress should or could accept a place on an Administrative Board with powers.
Sentence 63: But we also were in general agreement with the thought that Congress should, in some way, keep in touch with the administrative procedure from day to day and week to week through the year.
Sentence 64: In other words—now this is off the record just so as to give you the thought in the back of my head—it would be a great deal better for the Government as a whole if Congress could keep in very close touch with the operations of the administrative branch of the Government right straight through the year.
Sentence 65: The custom in the past has been for Congress, every once in so often, to conduct an investigation which goes back two or three or four or five years.
Sentence 66: It doesn't do anybody any particular good, because, if the Administration is doing anything it should not do, it would be a great deal better to have it known right away.
Sentence 67: So, for a long time, I have been trying to work out some practical method of keeping the Congress in touch, day in and day out, with what the Administration is doing, so that there won't be an accumulation of things which may result after a long period of years in scandal or investigation.
Sentence 68: At the same time we could keep perfectly clear the separation of functions.
Sentence 69: Some of you who were in Albany remember the drag-down knock-out fight I had four years ago, when the New York State Legislature tried to maintain, throughout the year, a control over the expenditures of appropriations.
Sentence 70: I had to carry it all the way up to the Court of Appeals.
Sentence 71: We lost in the lower court and won out by a unanimous opinion in the Court of Appeals, which decided that the Legislature had no right to control Executive functions in any shape, manner or form.
Sentence 72: That does not mean that the Legislature hasn't the right—and probably should have the actual practice—of constantly inspecting Executive acts.
Sentence 73: That is a very different thing, as long as they do not tell the Executive how to carry out the Executive functions.
Sentence 74: If you use this, draw the distinction that we cannot have interference by the Legislature.
Sentence 75: After they once pass a law and appropriate the money, they have nothing more to say about its expenditure in an Executive way; but, at the same time, they have every right to watch the operation of spending.
Sentence 76: It makes for frankness and public knowledge of Government throughout the year. . . .
