Sentence 1: 1933 The Presidents News Conference 866

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have nothing to say of any dramatic importance this morning.
Sentence 3: I like to see you once in a while and let you know that we're still here and functioning.
Sentence 4: EXECUTIVE BRANCH REORGANIZATION BILL
By way of mere background, I am quite enthusiastic about this bill the Senate has passed for reorganization of the Government.
Sentence 5: I am delighted to see that they are at last going to give the President, no matter who he may be, the authority to straighten out the reorganization of the Government.
Sentence 6: After 30 years of agitation we will certainly accomplish something that will be a continuing benefit for generations to come.
Sentence 7: So no one is more pleased than I am to see ample and adequate authority given.
Sentence 8: Reorganization can now be based on logical lines.
Sentence 9: They may vary from those I proposed, but nevertheless the major objective will be attained--to save overlap and get more definite and concentrated administration with economies that come from it.
Sentence 10: DEPRECIATED FOREIGN CURRENCIES AND IMPORTS
There is a good deal of confusion about the question of depreciated currencies going on and their effect on imports.
Sentence 11: The Secretary of Commerce is, I think, going to have a report for you sometime today giving the views of that Department on it.
Sentence 12: I think it will develop from that report that it is always difficult to visualize the forces in motion in their proper proportions.
Sentence 13: The fact that the imports of commodities show no gross increase in itself does not mean so much when you have depreciated prices; it does mean increased quantities.
Sentence 14: In a country with decreasing consumption the maintenance of the same volume of imports means a larger proportion of goods through import channels than existed before.
Sentence 15: So in those two directions even without any increase in visible imports, it is shown by statistics that there is a fundamental and effectual increase in imports from depreciated currency countries which are affecting employment in the country and tending to bring down price levels.
Sentence 16: As a matter of fact, there are 150 import commodities where there has been actual increase in import as the result of depreciated currencies.
Sentence 17: The question is not to be easily dismissed as not being one requiring national attention.
Sentence 18: It will continue to require attention until such time as currencies have been put on a more stable basis abroad.
Sentence 19: It is one of those economic actions that is going to give us continuous disturbance.
Sentence 20: Other than that, I have nothing on my mind.
Sentence 21: POST-PRESIDENTIAL PLANS
Q. Mr. President, could you tell us anything about your plans after March 4?
Sentence 22: There are stories about your going to the South Seas or around the world, et cetera.
Sentence 23: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 24: I have been to the South Seas, and I have been around the world.
Sentence 25: I am not going to leave the United States except that I might go through the Panama Canal on my way home.
