Sentence 1: 1933 Fireside Chat Recovery Program
Sentence 2: After the adjournment of the historical special session of the Congress five weeks ago I purposely refrained from addressing you for two very good reasons.
Sentence 3: First, I think that we all wanted the opportunity of a little quiet thought to examine and assimilate in a mental picture the crowding events of the hundred days which had been devoted to the starting of the wheels of the New Deal.
Sentence 4: Secondly, I wanted a few weeks in which to set up the new administrative organization and to see the first fruits of our careful planning.
Sentence 5: I think it will interest you if I set forth the fundamentals of this planning for national recovery; and this I am very certain will make it abundantly clear to you that all of the proposals and all of the legislation since the fourth day of March have not been just a collection of haphazard schemes, but rather the orderly component parts of a connected and logical whole.
Sentence 6: Long before Inauguration Day I became convinced that individual effort and local effort and even disjointed Federal effort had failed and of necessity would fail and, therefore, that a rounded leadership by the Federal Government had become a necessity both of theory and of fact.
Sentence 7: Such leadership, however, had its beginning in preserving and strengthening the credit of the United States Government, because without that no leadership was a possibility.
Sentence 8: For years the Government had not lived within its income.
Sentence 9: The immediate task was to bring our regular expenses within our revenues.
Sentence 10: That has been done.
Sentence 11: It may seem inconsistent for a government to cut down its regular expenses and at the same time to borrow and to spend billions for an emergency.
Sentence 12: But it is not inconsistent because a large portion of the emergency money has been paid out in the form of sound loans which will be repaid to the Treasury over a period of years; and to cover the rest of the emergency money we have imposed taxes to pay the interest and the installments on that part of the debt.
Sentence 13: So you will see that we have kept our credit good.
Sentence 14: We have built a granite foundation in a period of confusion.
Sentence 15: That foundation of the Federal credit stands there broad and sure.
Sentence 16: It is the base of the whole recovery plan.
Sentence 17: Then came the part of the problem that concerned the credit of the individual citizens themselves.
Sentence 18: You and I know of the banking crisis and of the great danger to the savings of our people.
Sentence 19: On March sixth every national bank was closed.
Sentence 20: One month later 90 percent of the deposits in the national banks had been made available to the depositors.
Sentence 21: Today only about 5 percent of the deposits in national banks are still tied up.
Sentence 22: The condition relating to State banks, while not quite so good on a percentage basis, is showing a steady reduction in the total of frozen deposits —a result much better than we had expected three months ago.
Sentence 23: The problem of the credit of the individual was made more difficult because of another fact.
Sentence 24: The dollar was a different dollar from the one with which the average debt had been incurred.
Sentence 25: For this reason large numbers of people were actually losing possession of and title to their farms and homes.
Sentence 26: All of you know the financial steps which have been taken to correct this inequality.
Sentence 27: In addition the Home Loan Act, the Farm Loan Act and the Bankruptcy Act were passed.
Sentence 28: It was a vital necessity to restore purchasing power by reducing the debt and interest charges upon our people, but while we were helping people to save their credit it was at the same time absolutely essential to do something about the physical needs of hundreds of thousands who were in dire straits at that very moment.
Sentence 29: Municipal and State aid were being stretched to the limit.
Sentence 30: We appropriated half a billion dollars to supplement their efforts and in addition, as you know, we have put 300,000 young men into practical and useful work in our forests and to prevent flood and soil erosion.
Sentence 31: The wages they earn are going in greater part to the support of the nearly one million people who constitute their families.
Sentence 32: In this same classification we can properly place the great public works program running to a total of over three billion dollars—to be used for highways and ships and flood prevention and inland navigation and thousands of self-sustaining State and municipal improvements.
Sentence 33: Two points should be made clear in the allotting and administration of these projects: first, we are using the utmost care to choose labor-creating, quick-acting, useful projects, avoiding the smell of the pork barrel; and second, we are hoping that at least half of the money will come back to the Government from projects which will pay for themselves over a period of years.
Sentence 34: Thus far I have spoken primarily of the foundation stones-the measures that were necessary to reestablish credit and to head people in the opposite direction by preventing distress and providing as much work as possible through governmental agencies.
Sentence 35: Now I come to the links which will build us a more lasting prosperity.
Sentence 36: I have said that we cannot attain that in a Nation half boom and half broke.
Sentence 37: If all of our people have work and fair wages and fair profits, they can buy the products of their neighbors, and business is good.
Sentence 38: But if you take away the wages and the profits of half of them, business is only half as good.
Sentence 39: It does not help much if the fortunate half is very prosperous; the best way is for everybody to be reasonably prosperous.
Sentence 40: For many years the two great barriers to a normal prosperity have been low farm prices and the creeping paralysis of unemployment.
Sentence 41: These factors have cut the purchasing power of the country in half.
Sentence 42: I promised action.
Sentence 43: Congress did its part when it passed the Farm and the Industrial Recovery Acts.
Sentence 44: Today we are putting these two Acts to work and they will work if people understand their plain objectives.
Sentence 45: First, the Farm Act: It is based on the fact that the purchasing power of nearly half our population depends on adequate prices for farm products.
Sentence 46: We have been producing more of some crops than we consume or can sell in a depressed world market.
Sentence 47: The cure is not to produce so much.
Sentence 48: Without our help the farmers cannot get together and cut production, and the Farm Bill gives them a method of bringing their production down to a reasonable level and of obtaining reasonable prices for their crops.
Sentence 49: I have clearly stated that this method is in a sense experimental, but so far as we have gone we have reason to believe that it will produce good results.
Sentence 50: It is obvious that if we can greatly increase the purchasing power of the tens of millions of our people who make a living from farming and the distribution of farm crops, we shall greatly increase the consumption of those goods which are turned out by industry.
Sentence 51: That brings me to the final step—bringing back industry along sound lines.
Sentence 52: Last Autumn, on several occasions, I expressed my faith that we can make possible by democratic self-discipline in industry general increases in wages and shortening of hours sufficient to enable industry to pay its own workers enough to let those workers buy and use the things that their labor produces.
Sentence 53: This can be done only if we permit and encourage cooperative action in industry, because it is obvious that without united action a few selfish men in each competitive group will pay starvation wages and insist on long hours of work.
Sentence 54: Others in that group must either follow suit or close up shop.
Sentence 55: We have seen the result of action of that kind in the continuing descent into the economic hell of the past four years.
Sentence 56: There is a clear way to reverse that process: If all employers in each competitive group agree to pay their workers the same wages —reasonable wages—and require the same hours—reasonable hours—then higher wages and shorter hours will hurt no employer.
Sentence 57: Moreover, such action is better for the employer than unemployment and low wages, because it makes more buyers for his product.
Sentence 58: That is the simple idea which is the very heart of the Industrial Recovery Act.
Sentence 59: On the basis of this simple principle of everybody doing things together, we are starting out on this nationwide attack on unemployment.
Sentence 60: It will succeed if our people understand it— in the big industries, in the little shops, in the great cities and in the small villages.
Sentence 61: There is nothing complicated about it and there is nothing particularly new in the principle.
Sentence 62: It goes back to the basic idea of society and of the Nation itself that people acting in a group can accomplish things which no individual acting alone could even hope to bring about.
Sentence 63: Here is an example.
Sentence 64: In the Cotton Textile Code and in other agreements already signed, child labor has been abolished.
Sentence 65: That makes me personally happier than any other one thing with which I have been connected since I came to Washington.
Sentence 66: In the textile industry—an industry which came to me spontaneously and with a splendid cooperation as soon as the Recovery Act was signed—child labor was an old evil.
Sentence 67: But no employer acting alone was able to wipe it out.
Sentence 68: If one employer tried it, or if one State tried it, the costs of operation rose so high that it was impossible to compete with the employers or States which had failed to act.
Sentence 69: The moment the Recovery Act was passed, this monstrous thing which neither opinion nor law could reach through years of effort went out in a flash.
Sentence 70: As a British editorial put it, we did more under a Code in one day than they in England had been able to do under the common law in eighty-five years of effort.
Sentence 71: I use this incident, my friends, not to boast of what has already been done but to point the way to you for even greater cooperative efforts this summer and autumn.
Sentence 72: We are not going through another winter like the last.
Sentence 73: I doubt if ever any people so bravely and cheerfully endured a season half so bitter.
Sentence 74: We cannot ask America to continue to face such needless hardships.
Sentence 75: It is time for courageous action, and the Recovery Bill gives us the means to conquer unemployment with exactly the same weapon that we have used to strike down child labor.
Sentence 76: The proposition is simply this:
If all employers will act together to shorten hours and raise wages we can put people back to work.
Sentence 77: No employer will suffer, because the relative level of competitive cost will advance by the same amount for all.
Sentence 78: But if any considerable group should lag or shirk, this great opportunity will pass us by and we shall go into another desperate winter.
Sentence 79: This must not happen.
Sentence 80: We have sent out to all employers an agreement which is the result of weeks of consultation.
Sentence 81: This agreement checks against the voluntary codes of nearly all the large industries which have already been submitted.
Sentence 82: This blanket agreement carries the unanimous approval of the three boards which I have appointed to advise in this, boards representing the great leaders in labor, in industry, and in social service.
Sentence 83: The agreement has already brought a flood of approval from every State, and from so wide a cross-section of the common calling of industry that I know it is fair for all.
Sentence 84: It is a plan—deliberate, reasonable and just-intended to put into effect at once the most important of the broad principles which are being established, industry by industry, through codes.
Sentence 85: Naturally, it takes a good deal of organizing and a great many hearings and many months, to get these codes perfected and signed, and we cannot wait for all of them to go through.
Sentence 86: The blanket agreements, however, which I am sending to every employer will start the wheels turning now, and not six months from now.
Sentence 87: There are, of course, men, a few men, who might thwart this great common purpose by seeking selfish advantage.
Sentence 88: There are adequate penalties in the law, but I am now asking the cooperation that comes from opinion and from conscience.
Sentence 89: These are the only instruments we shall use in this great summer offensive against unemployment.
Sentence 90: But we shall use them to the limit to protect the willing from the laggard and to make the plan succeed.
Sentence 91: In war, in the gloom of night attack, soldiers wear a bright badge on their shoulders to be sure that comrades do not fire on comrades.
Sentence 92: On that principle, those who cooperate in this program must know each other at a glance.
Sentence 93: That is why we have provided a badge of honor for this purpose, a simple design with a legend, "We do our part," and I ask that all those who join with me shall display that badge prominently.
Sentence 94: It is essential to our purpose.
Sentence 95: Already all the great, basic industries have come forward willingly with proposed codes, and in these codes they accept the principles leading to mass reemployment.
Sentence 96: But, important as is this heartening demonstration, the richest field for results is among the small employers, those whose contribution will be to give new work for from one to ten people.
Sentence 97: These smaller employers are indeed a vital part of the backbone of the country, and the success of our plan lies largely in their hands.
Sentence 98: Already the telegrams and letters are pouring into the White House—messages from employers who ask that their names be placed on this special Roll of Honor.
Sentence 99: They represent great corporations and companies, and partnerships and individuals.
Sentence 100: I ask that even before the dates set in the agreements which we have sent out, the employers of the country who have not already done so—the big fellows and the little fellows—shall at once write or telegraph to me personally at the White House, expressing their intentions of going through with the plan.
Sentence 101: And it is my purpose to keep posted in the post office of every town, a Roll of Honor of all those who join with me.
Sentence 102: I want to take this occasion to say to the twenty-four Governors who are now in conference in San Francisco, that nothing thus far has helped in strengthening this great movement more than their resolutions adopted at the very outset of their meeting, giving this plan their instant and unanimous approval, and pledging to support it in their States.
Sentence 103: To the men and women whose lives have been darkened by the fact or the fear of unemployment, I am justified in saying a word of encouragement because the codes and the agreements already approved, or about to be passed upon, prove that the plan does raise wages, and that it does put people back to work.
Sentence 104: You can look on every employer who adopts the plan as one who is doing his part, and those employers deserve well of every-one who works for a living.
Sentence 105: It will be clear to you, as it is to me, that while the shirking employer may undersell his competitor, the saving he thus makes is made at the expense of his country's welfare.
Sentence 106: While we are making this great common effort there should be no discord and dispute.
Sentence 107: This is no time to cavil or to question the standard set by this universal agreement.
Sentence 108: It is time for patience and understanding and cooperation.
Sentence 109: The workers of this country have rights under this law which cannot be taken from them, and nobody will be permitted to whittle them away but, on the other hand, no aggression is now necessary to attain those rights.
Sentence 110: The whole country will be united to get them for you.
Sentence 111: The principle that applies to the employers applies to the workers as well, and I ask you workers to cooperate in the same spirit.
Sentence 112: When Andrew Jackson, "Old Hickory," died, someone asked, "Will he go to Heaven?"
Sentence 113: and the answer was, "He will if he wants to."
Sentence 114: If I am asked whether the American people will pull themselves out of this depression, I answer, "They will if they want to."
Sentence 115: The essence of the plan is a universal limitation of hours of work per week for any individual by common consent, and a universal payment of wages above a minimum, also by common consent.
Sentence 116: I cannot guarantee the success of this nationwide plan, but the people of this country can guarantee its success.
Sentence 117: I have no faith in "cure-alls"
Sentence 118: but I believe that we can greatly influence economic forces.
Sentence 119: I have no sympathy with the professional economists who insist that things must run their course and that human agencies can have no influence on economic ills.
Sentence 120: One reason is that I happen to know that professional economists have changed their definition of economic laws every five or ten years for a very long time, but I do have faith, and retain faith, in the strength of the common purpose, and in the strength of unified action taken by the American people.
Sentence 121: That is why I am describing to you the simple purposes and the solid foundations upon which our program of recovery is built.
Sentence 122: That is why I am asking the employers of the Nation to sign this common covenant with me—to sign it in the name of patriotism and humanity.
Sentence 123: That is why I am asking the workers to go along with us in a spirit of understanding and of helpfulness.
