Sentence 1: 1933 The Presidents News Conference 851

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I wish to take this occasion to wish you all a Happy New Year.
Sentence 3: REPORTER
Sentence 4: We thank you, Mr. President.
Sentence 5: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 6: No doubt you are going to find plenty of news during the next 12 months.
Sentence 7: That is the main objective of your lives.
Sentence 8: REORGANIZATION OF THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH
I would like to discuss with you for a moment the question of reorganization of the Government.
Sentence 9: The proposals of Democratic leaders in Congress to stop the reorganization of Government functions which I have made is a backward step.
Sentence 10: The same opposition has now arisen which has defeated every effort at reorganization for 25 years.
Sentence 11: The chairman 1 of one House committee discloses: "Many members of the administration itself opposed Mr. Hoover's plan," but that he had not called them to testify because "he saw no reason to embarrass them."
Sentence 12: He could add that outside groups, congressional committees, and Members of Congress fear a reduction of influence in the administration of these functions.
Sentence 13: The proposal to transfer the job of reorganization to my successor is simply a device by which it is hoped that these proposals can be defeated.
Sentence 14: Statements that I have made over 10 years as to the opposition which has always thwarted reorganization have come true.
Sentence 15: Five years ago I made a statement like this:
1
Representative John J. Cochran was chairman of the House Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments.
Sentence 16: "...
Sentence 17: Practically every single item in such a program has invariably met with opposition of some vested official, or it has disturbed some vested habit, and offended some organized minority.
Sentence 18: It has aroused the paid propagandists.
Sentence 19: All these vested officials, vested habits, organized propaganda groups, are in favor of every item of reorganization except that which affects the bureau or the activity in which they are specially interested.
Sentence 20: No proposed change is so unimportant that it is not bitterly opposed by someone.
Sentence 21: In the aggregate, these directors of vested habits surround Congress with a confusing fog of opposition.
Sentence 22: Meantime, the inchoate voice of the public gets nowhere but to swear at 'bureaucracy'.
Sentence 23: "
Any real reorganization sensibly carried out will sooner or later embrace the very orders I have issued.
Sentence 24: For instance the consolidation of all agencies into one coordinated public works function has been recommended by every study of the subject since the Roosevelt administration.
Sentence 25: Every other advanced government on Earth has a definite public works department or division.
Sentence 26: No private business and no other government would tolerate the division of its construction work into over 20 authorities scattered through 12 different departments and establishments, as in the case of our Government.
Sentence 27: It is only by consolidation that duplication and waste of a multitude of offices and officials can be eliminated.
Sentence 28: It is the only way that the public can know what is going on in this branch of Government.
Sentence 29: They can only be brought under the limelight if they are concentrated in one place.
Sentence 30: It is the only way to further reduce logrolling and personal politics in these appropriations.
Sentence 31: The opposition to placing rivers and harbors work and a lot of independent activities into such a consolidation had been constant for years.
Sentence 32: The excuse that the services of the Army Engineers in the direction of such work will be sacrificed is untrue under the plan I proposed.
Sentence 33: No other government and no good government would tolerate merchant marine activities separated over five or six departments or independent establishments.
Sentence 34: The same can be said as to public health, education, land utilization, et cetera.
Sentence 35: Altogether I have directed that 58 boards, commissions, and bureaus should be consolidated into nine divisions.
Sentence 36: There are still others to be consolidated.
Sentence 37: Many regulatory functions now in the departments should be transferred to the Federal Trade and other regulating commissions.
Sentence 38: The financial and economic functions relating to agriculture should be consolidated.
Sentence 39: There should also be some change in major departments.
Sentence 40: Either Congress must keep its hands off now, or they must give to my successor much larger powers of independent action than given to any President if there is ever to be reorganization.
Sentence 41: And that authority to be effective should be free of the limitations in the law passed last year which gives Congress the veto power, which prevents the abolition of functions, which prevents the rearrangement of major departments.
Sentence 42: Otherwise it will, as is now being demonstrated in the present law, again be merely make-believe politics.
Sentence 43: I have asked Mr. Joslin to get out extracts of what I have said about this before, because it is particularly apropos to the kind of opposition that has now developed.
Sentence 44: Q.
Sentence 45: These other changes that can be made, will you be sending up any more Executive orders before March 4?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 46: I think not.
Sentence 47: We have some studies going on that I would have sent up if there had been a disposition to go ahead.
Sentence 48: I may yet send them up if they are ready in time.
Sentence 49: There are regulatory functions in the departments carried out under Executive authority and these amount to tyrannies of pretty poor order at times.
Sentence 50: They ought to be in the hands of regulatory bodies.
Sentence 51: That does not make so much for economy as for efficiency and better government.
Sentence 52: There are some questions as to manufactured works in the Army and Navy that should be investigated and got in better unity, and these investigations are going on.
Sentence 53: But reorganization of the Government is a long process, and it ought to be done step by step.
Sentence 54: Otherwise I have nothing to add.
