Sentence 1: 1933 Press Conference 25

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: It is very good to see you all.
Sentence 3: My hope is that these conferences are going to be merely enlarged editions of the kind of very delightful family conferences I have been holding in Albany for the last four years.
Sentence 4: I am told that what I am about to do will become impossible, but I am going to try it.
Sentence 5: We are not going to have any more written questions; and, of course, while I cannot answer seventy-five or a hundred questions because I simply haven't got the time, I see no reason why I should not talk to you ladies and gentlemen off the record in just the way I have been doing in Albany and in the way I used to do in the Navy Department down here.
Sentence 6: Quite a number of you, I am glad to see, date back to the days of the previous existence which I led in Washington.
Sentence 7: And so I think we shall discontinue the practice of compelling the submitting of questions in writing before the conference in order to get an answer.
Sentence 8: There will be a great many questions, of course, that I won't answer, either because they are "if" questions—and I never answer them—and Brother Stephenson will tell you what an "if" question is—
MR. STEPHENSON (Reporter):
Sentence 9: I ask forty of them a day.
Sentence 10: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 11: And the others, of course, are the questions which for various reasons I do not want to discuss, or I am not ready to discuss, or I do not know anything about.
Sentence 12: There will be a great many questions you will ask that I do not know enough about to answer.
Sentence 13: Then, in regard to news announcements, Steve (Early, Assistant Secretary to the President) and I thought that it would be best that straight news for use from this office should always be without direct quotations.
Sentence 14: In other words, I do not want to be directly quoted, unless direct quotations are given out by Steve in writing.
Sentence 15: That makes that perfectly clear.
Sentence 16: Then there are two other matters we will talk about: The first is "background information," which means material which can be used by all of you on your own authority and responsibility, not to be attributed to the White House, because I do not want to have to revive the Ananias Club.
Sentence 17: (Laughter)
Sentence 18: Then the second thing is the "off the record" information which means, of course, confidential information which is given only to those who attend the conference.
Sentence 19: Now there is one thing I want to say right now about which I think you will go along with me.
Sentence 20: I want to ask you not to repeat this "off the record" confidential information either to your own editors or to your associates who are not here; because there is always the danger that, while you people may not violate the rule, somebody may forget to say, "This is off the record and confidential," and the other party may use it in a story.
Sentence 21: That is to say, it is not to be used and not to be told to those fellows who happen not to come around to the conference.
Sentence 22: In other words, it is only for those present.
Sentence 23: Now, as to news, I don't think there is any.
Sentence 24: (Laughter)
Steve reminds me that I have just signed the application for Associate Membership in the Press Club, which I am very happy to do.
Sentence 25: Q. Will you go to Congress or send your message?
Sentence 26: THE PRESIDENT: Send it.
Sentence 27: Q.
Sentence 28: When will it be available here for us?
Sentence 29: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 30: Judging by the fact that I haven't started to write it, I should say at the very last minute possible.
Sentence 31: I shall let you have it as soon as I can.
Sentence 32: Of course it will be for release when transmitted.
Sentence 33: I doubt very much if you will get it very much more than half an hour before it is taken to the Capitol.
Sentence 34: Q. Will it be brief?
Sentence 35: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 36: The situation demands brevity.
Sentence 37: Q. On the Hill they say you only recommend emergency stuff, and that Congress will possibly adjourn next Monday or earlier and reconvene a short time after, and take up permanent stuff as well as your complete program.
Sentence 38: Is that your idea of it?
Sentence 39: THE PRESIDENT: I think I can put it this way—and this comes under the second category, "background information" and "not off the record," because there is no reason why you should not use it in writing your stories.
Sentence 40: The general thought at the present time is that it is absolutely impossible by tomorrow to draft any complete or permanent legislation either on banking, or on budget balancing, or on anything else, because the situation, as you all know, is changing very much from day to day, so much so that if I were to ask for any specific and detailed legislation it might be that the details will have to be changed by a week from today.
Sentence 41: Therefore it is necessary—I think you can make a pretty good guess—that I shall have to ask for fairly broad powers in regard to banking-such powers as would make it possible to meet the changing situation from day to day in different parts of the country.
Sentence 42: We cannot write a permanent banking act for the Nation in three days.
Sentence 43: That is about the size of it.
Sentence 44: Q. Do you favor national scrip or scrip issued by clearing houses?
Sentence 45: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 46: Well, there again you are getting down to details and a very good illustration of why you cannot ask for too detailed legislation.
Sentence 47: About Monday, the day before yesterday, a very, very wide use of scrip seemed necessary; and by last night it looked possible to avoid such a general use of scrip.
Sentence 48: But it does not mean that scrip will be eliminated by any means.
Sentence 49: Scrip may be used in many localities, pending the working out of a sounder plan and more permanent.
Sentence 50: plan to get additional currency into use.
Sentence 51: Now, I can't tell you any more about that, because we are still working on the details, but essentially it means an addition to the available currency. . . .
Sentence 52: Q.
Sentence 53: You mentioned in your greetings to the Governors on Monday that you favored a unified banking system.
Sentence 54: Is that in your emergency plan?
Sentence 55: THE PRESIDENT: That wasn't quite the way I put it to them.
Sentence 56: What I said to them was that it was necessary to treat the State and national banks the same way in this emergency, so there would not be two different classes of banks in this country; and the other thing I said was to try to avoid forty-eight different plans of putting this into effect.
Sentence 57: Q.
Sentence 58: Do I understand you are going to keep hold of this banking situation until permanent legislation is enacted?
Sentence 59: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 60: Off the record answer, yes.
Q.
Sentence 61: Your idea is that after getting through the emergency you may get a breathing spell until the permanent program is in form.
Sentence 62: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 63: Yes, I was coming to that.
Sentence 64: This is what might be called the "present thought" because everything is subject to change these days within twenty-four or even twelve hours.
Sentence 65: The general thought is that we would try to get through the two or three emergency matters as quickly as possible, and that then—and, mind you, I haven't even talked to the Congressional leaders about this, so there is no agreement on it—Congress should recess for I don't know how long a time but not for very long—for a matter of two or three weeks—to enable me to work out and draft more permanent legislation. . . .
Sentence 66: Q.
Sentence 67: What is going to happen after Thursday night, Mr. President, when the holiday ends?
Sentence 68: Are you going to call another one?
Sentence 69: THE PRESIDENT: That depends on how fast things move.
Sentence 70: Q.
Sentence 71: Depending on what Congress does too?
THE PRESIDENT: (Nods) Of course, in regard to certain phases of the financial situation, undoubtedly there will be necessary some additional proclamations.
Sentence 72: That includes, for example, the question of control of gold.
Sentence 73: That is obvious.
Sentence 74: As long as nobody asks me whether we are of[ the gold standard or gold basis, that is all right, because nobody knows what the gold basis or gold standard really is.
Sentence 75: If you want a definition of the gold standard, read my friend Robey's story in the New York Evening Post of last night.
Sentence 76: I think it is about as good a definition as there is.
Sentence 77: It is quite short and if you would like to hear it, I will read it to you.
Sentence 78: It is a pretty good document.
Sentence 79: AUDIENCE: If it really tells us what the gold standard is —
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 80: It is pretty good.
Sentence 81: It doesn't say whether we are on or off it.
Sentence 82: (Reading)
"Declaration of the national moratorium has raised the question in many minds as to what constitutes a gold standard.
Sentence 83: More specifically many people have wondered whether the United States by this action has suspended the gold standard in a true sense.
Sentence 84: The Treasury officials and some of the bankers maintain that we have not.
Sentence 85: Obviously, the answer to the question rests upon one's conception of what it is necessary for a country to do in order to maintain a metal standard.
Sentence 86: "This is a problem which can be answered with definiteness.
Sentence 87: Over a long period four things have come to be recognized as requisites of a gold standard.
Sentence 88: When a country is complying with these it is on the standard.
Sentence 89: When it does not it is off the standard.
Sentence 90: "The first of these requisites is that there shall be a coin of definite weight and fineness.
Sentence 91: This, of course, is established by law.
Sentence 92: In the United States the standard unit is the dollar, consisting of 25.8 grains, 9-10 fine, or 23.22 grains of pure gold.
Sentence 93: "
Well, of course on that first requisite we are on the gold standard.
Sentence 94: "The second requisite is that there be free and unlimited coinage.
Sentence 95: In a country upon a gold standard one may take any amount of the metal to the Government and it will be coined into dollars of the established weight or rate.
Sentence 96: Whether a brassage charge is made is of no significance.
Sentence 97: Put in other words, this means that the Government will buy gold at a set price.
Sentence 98: In the United States this is about $20.67 an ounce.
Sentence 99: "
Well, we are still on the gold standard, and the more people who bring gold to have it made into money the better.
Sentence 100: "The third requisite is that there be convertibility of paper money into gold.
Sentence 101: This, in a sense, is the reverse side of free and unlimited coinage.
Sentence 102: In other words, just as one can take any amount of gold metal to the mint and get money in return at a definite rate, so he can take any amount of currency and get gold at a definite rate.
Sentence 103: In the United States we have seven kinds of paper money, some of which are not directly redeemable in gold according to the law but all of which under the gold standard act of 1900 must be kept at a par with gold.
Sentence 104: "
Well, you can draw your own conclusions as to that.
Sentence 105: "The final requisite is that there must be free movement of gold.
Sentence 106: This is of significance in the exportation of gold.
Sentence 107: It is through the enjoyment of this freedom that the currency of one country is kept at an approximate equilibrium with the currency of other Nations.
Sentence 108: Only when there is not such freedom of import and export of gold does the currency of one country fall to any substantial discount in relation to another currency.
Sentence 109: "
Well, of course on that question of the foreign trade in gold, for a good long time as a matter of actual fact the United States has been the only country on the gold standard.
Sentence 110: France has been theoretically on a gold standard, but nobody in France can take a bill to the bank and get gold for it; and, as far as imports and exports go in France, they have been Government-controlled.
Sentence 111: The same thing holds true in Switzerland and Holland.
Sentence 112: Only up to last Sunday night we have had free trade in gold; and now we haven't. . .
Sentence 113: .
Sentence 114: Q.
Sentence 115: May I ask if the long-time settlement of the banking situation is intermeshed with the World Economic Conference?
Sentence 116: THE PRESIDENT: I should say on that—background information—so far as banks go within the United States, no; so far as international exchange goes, yes.
Sentence 117: I think that is the easiest way of putting it.
Sentence 118: In other words, the opening of banks and the maintaining of banks once they are opened are not connected with the World Economic Conference.
Sentence 119: Q.
Sentence 120: In your Inaugural Address, in which you only touched upon things, you said you are for sound and adequate . . .
Sentence 121: THE PRESIDENT: I put it the other way around.
Sentence 122: I said "adequate but sound."
Sentence 123: Q. Now that you have more time, can you define what that is?
Sentence 124: THE PRESIDENT: No. (Laughter.)
Sentence 125: In other words—and I should call this "off the record" information—you cannot define the thing too closely one way or the other.
Sentence 126: On Friday afternoon last we undoubtedly did not have adequate currency.
Sentence 127: No question about that.
Sentence 128: There wasn't enough circulating money to go around.
Sentence 129: Q.
Sentence 130: I believe that.
Sentence 131: (Laughter.)
Sentence 132: THE PRESIDENT: We hope that when the banks reopen a great deal of the currency that was withdrawn for one purpose or another will find its way back.
Sentence 133: We have got to provide an adequate currency.
Sentence 134: Last Friday we would have had to provide it in the form of scrip, and probably some additional issues of Federal Bank notes.
Sentence 135: If things go along as we hope they will, the use of scrip can be very greatly curtailed, and the amounts of new Federal Bank issues, we hope, can be also limited to a very great extent.
Sentence 136: In other words, what you are coming to now really is a managed currency, the adequateness of which will depend on the conditions of the moment.
Sentence 137: It may expand one week and it may contract another week.
Sentence 138: That part is all off the record.
Sentence 139: Q.
Sentence 140: Can we use that part-managed?
Sentence 141: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 142: No, I think not. . . .
Sentence 143: Q.
Sentence 144: Now you came down to adequacy; but you haven't defined what you think is sound.
Sentence 145: Don't you want to define that now?
Sentence 146: THE PRESIDENT: I don't want to define "sound" now.
Sentence 147: In other words, in its essence—this is entirely off the record—in its essence we must not put the Government any further in debt because of failed banks.
Sentence 148: Now, the real mark of delineation between sound and unsound is when the Government starts to pay its bills by starting printing presses.
Sentence 149: That is about the size of it.
Sentence 150: Q. Couldn't you take that out and give it to us?
Sentence 151: That's a very good thing at this time.
Sentence 152: THE PRESIDENT: I don't think so.
Sentence 153: There may be some talk about it tomorrow.
Sentence 154: Q.
Sentence 155: When you speak of a managed currency, do you speak of a temporary proposition or a permanent system?
Sentence 156: THE PRESIDENT: It ought to be part of the permanent system that is off the record—it ought to be part of the permanent system, so we don't run into this thing again. . .
Sentence 157: .
Sentence 158: Q.
Sentence 159: Can you tell us anything about guaranteeing of bank deposits?
Sentence 160: THE PRESIDENT: I can tell you as to guaranteeing bank deposits my own views, and I think those of the old Administration.
Sentence 161: The general underlying thought behind the use of the word "guarantee" with respect to bank deposits is that you guarantee bad banks as well as good banks.
Sentence 162: The minute the Government starts to do that the Government runs into a probable loss.
Sentence 163: I will give you an example.
Sentence 164: Suppose there are three banks in town; one is 100 percent capable of working out, one 50 percent and another 10 percent.
Sentence 165: Now, if the Government assumes a 100 percent guarantee, it will lose 50 percent on one and 90 percent on the other.
Sentence 166: If it takes on a 50 percent guarantee, it will lose nothing on the first and second, but will lose a lot on the 10 percent solvent bank.
Sentence 167: Any form of general guarantee means a definite loss to the Government.
Sentence 168: The objective in the plan that we are working on can be best stated this way: There are undoubtedly some banks that are not going to pay one hundred cents on the dollar.
Sentence 169: We all know it is better to have that loss taken than to jeopardize the credit of the United States Government or to put the United States Government further in debt.
Sentence 170: Therefore, the one objective is going to be to keep the loss in the individual banks down to a minimum, endeavoring to get 100 percent on them.
Sentence 171: We do not wish to make the United States Government liable for the mistakes and errors of individual banks, and put a premium on unsound banking in the future.
Sentence 172: Q.
Sentence 173: That is off the record?
Sentence 174: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 175: Yes.
Sentence 176: Q. Couldn't you make it background?
Sentence 177: There is a demand for the guarantee proposition.
Sentence 178: THE PRESIDENT: As long as you don't write stories to give the average depositor the thought that his own particular bank isn't going to pay.
Sentence 179: That is what I want to avoid, because, when you come down to it, the great majority of banks are going to pay up.
Sentence 180: There will be many other banks which won't pay out the whole thing immediately, but will pay out 100 percent in time.
Sentence 181: There will be a very small number of banks that will probably have to go to the Examiner; but I don't want anybody to get the idea in reading the stories that the average bank isn't going to pay one hundred cents on the dollar, because the average bank is going to pay it. . . .
