Sentence 1: 1933 Press Conference 26

THE PRESIDENT: Quite a mob today.
Sentence 2: Q.
Sentence 3: It must be the spring weather.
Sentence 4: They expect a good farm story.
Sentence 5: THE PRESIDENT: I don't believe they will get any farm story.
Sentence 6: Haven't got to it yet.
Sentence 7: MR. DONALDSON: All in.
Sentence 8: THE PRESIDENT: What is the news?
Sentence 9: Q.
Sentence 10: That is what we want to know.
Sentence 11: Q. Anything about gold, so that we can know what we are writing about?
Sentence 12: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 13: No. Didn't Jesse Jones talk to you yesterday?
Sentence 14: Q.
Sentence 15: He told us he knew nothing about it yesterday.
Sentence 16: Q.
Sentence 17: And we believe him.
Sentence 18: (Laughter)
Q.
Sentence 19: He said that you were the only man who knew.
Sentence 20: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 21: Then I guess nobody does.
Sentence 22: Q.
Sentence 23: He said you did.
Sentence 24: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know anything about it. . . .
Sentence 25: (Laughter)
Q.
Sentence 26: Can you tell us something about your attitude toward the price-fixing proposals talked about in the last few days?
Sentence 27: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know exactly what you mean by "price-fixing proposals."
Sentence 28: Perhaps I can talk to you for just a minute off the record again so that I can give you some idea of the results of our program in agriculture.
Sentence 29: Well, let's start, say, in the South, where a year ago the cotton growers got around 4 1/2, 5, 5 1/2 cents for their cotton.
Sentence 30: This year they made a pretty good crop, even after they had plowed a portion of it under; and, of course, they did get paid for that portion they did plow under.
Sentence 31: So, from the cash point of view, they are very distinctly better off this year.
Sentence 32: They got nine or ten cents for cotton where, last year, they got not much over half that amount.
Sentence 33: So, while we don't think that cotton is high enough yet on a parity basis, we think it is a pretty good job for a year.
Sentence 34: Undoubtedly the purchasing power in the South has tremendously increased.
Sentence 35: That is illustrated by the remark that General Wood of Sears Roebuck made to me the other day.
Sentence 36: The reason I keep this off the record is that I don't want any of these people whom I quote approached.
Sentence 37: Sears Roebuck sales in the country dropped off about this time last year; but Sears Roebuck sales in the South this year have gone up considerably, showing a very definite increase in purchasing power on the part of the agricultural communities—and the South is, of course, primarily agricultural.
Sentence 38: For instance, in the State of Georgia, Sears showed an increase of 120 percent over the corresponding month of 1932.
Sentence 39: That is just an illustration to us that we are coming along in a satisfactory way this year, although we hope that next year we shall get a higher price than 10 cents for cotton.
Sentence 40: That, however, we cannot talk abut because it is next year; we don't know what the economic conditions will be.
Sentence 41: Then, Number 2, the tobacco-growing part of the country.
Sentence 42: There, because of the agreement we entered into, the tobacco farmers are getting 17 cents, I think it is, for their tobacco.
Sentence 43: Their purchasing power has gone up relatively even more than that of the cotton farmers.
Sentence 44: Ninety-seven percent of them have signed up on acreage reduction for next year; and the five big tobacco companies that do the buying of the tobacco have guaranteed a price of 17 cents for the average of this tobacco for the balance of this crop, which means about three-quarters of the crop which has not been sold.
Sentence 45: That is a very large increase in the actual price to the tobacco farmer, so he is getting along pretty well this year.
Sentence 46: Then you come down to certain other sections.
Sentence 47: Take, for instance, cattle.
Sentence 48: Cattle are very bad.
Sentence 49: Cattle, of course, were not included in the A.A.A. They were left out at the suggestion of the members of the Congress from the cattle country; and we have been able to do practically nothing in regard to cattle.
Sentence 50: They are very nearly at the low point; and it is a serious thing.
Sentence 51: Take the case of wheat.
Sentence 52: Taking it by and large through the wheat belt, the farmer is getting pretty nearly twice what he got last year for his wheat.
Sentence 53: But he has had a very, very short crop; and if, as in many cases, he only has had half as much wheat to sell off his farm as he had last year, it does not help him an awful lot to get twice as much money per bushel for it.
Sentence 54: So, from the cash point of view, the wheat farmer has not felt nearly so great a return toward prosperity as the cotton farmer and the tobacco farmer.
Sentence 55: In the case of corn and hogs we are up against one of the most difficult problems that anybody could face; because it is not just a case of a crop, it is a case of a crop plus a thing that the crop goes into.
Sentence 56: In other words, there are two factors and we have laid down what might be called a two-headed program which calls for a reduction in the number of hogs that will be fed next year, for a processing tax which will pay for the reduction in hogs and, at the same time, for purchase by the Government of just as many hogs as we can possibly use for relief purposes in order to cut down the tremendous surplus that exists in hogs at the present time.
Sentence 57: Now, of course, there is always the other added difficulty in the case of hogs.
Sentence 58: Hogs are perishable.
Sentence 59: Wheat and cotton are not.
Sentence 60: Hogs have to be taken care of within a certain definite number of months.
Sentence 61: Wheat and cotton you can carry from year to year.
Sentence 62: What we hope is that we shall be able to get the price of hogs up in the course of the winter; but that is not a guarantee that we can do it at once.
Sentence 63: There, again, there hasn't been an adequate return and therefore a resumption of purchasing power in the corn-hog section of the country.
Sentence 64: It is not so good.
Sentence 65: Then you come to another major crop, which is dairying.
Sentence 66: The actual price today in the dairy end of things is much nearer parity than it is in the case of corn or hogs or wheat.
Sentence 67: In the case of corn and hogs it is less than half of parity; in the case of dairying it is only down about 25 percent below parity.
Sentence 68: They have had some return of purchasing power, but not enough.
Sentence 69: There again you have a double thing.
Sentence 70: You have perishable products—milk and cream—and non-perishable-cheese and canned milk and things of that kind.
Sentence 71: You have the regional problem because of the use of milk and cream within regional areas.
Sentence 72: We are proceeding along the lines of the regional plan which we started in New York State about four years ago.
Sentence 73: I think they have signed the New England Regional Agreement with the expectation that that will give materially higher prices in that particular region.
Sentence 74: They are working on a number of regional agreements which ought to increase the price of milk, at least to the dairy farmer.
Sentence 75: That, again, like corn and hogs, is a very complex problem; and we haven't by any means solved it yet.
Sentence 76: I might as well be quite frank—we hope that things will get better, and we are working on the problem as fast as we can.
Sentence 77: When you get to the question of price fixing, k depends on what you call "price fixing."
Sentence 78: In the case of cotton, we may do it by lending a certain amount of money up to a certain number of cents per pound; for corn in the crib we have done the same thing.
Sentence 79: On the other problem of regions—in some sections of the country if the farmer can get, well, let us say 70 cents for his wheat he will do fairly well, whereas in other sections of the country if he gets 70 cents he will go broke.
Sentence 80: Well, can you have one price in one section and another price in another section?
Sentence 81: There are a great many different problems that enter into it. . .
Sentence 82: .
Sentence 83: I don't know that there is any particular story in this.
Sentence 84: I am trying to give you gentlemen a view of the situation- on the major situation.
Sentence 85: Things are pretty good in some sections and pretty rotten in other sections. . . .
Sentence 86: Q. Mr. President, there is a report that some very big or special relief program has been proposed at the White House.
Sentence 87: Have you heard anything like that, sir?
THE PRESIDENT; That is true and it is not true.
Sentence 88: What you are talking about is this—I don't see why you shouldn't use it and simply say that it is under discussion at the present time.
Sentence 89: Out of the total number of people who are now on the relief rolls in the country which, as I remember it, is slightly over five million—five and a half million—-
Q. Fifteen million.
Sentence 90: THE PRESIDENT: That includes the members of their families.
Sentence 91: It is about five and a half million individuals or heads of families that are receiving relief.
Sentence 92: Out of that number, about one half—nearly half—about two and one half million are engaged in public works of various kinds; in other words, they are receiving what we call work relief.
Sentence 93: They are being paid in cash for the work that they do on all kinds of public works.
Sentence 94: Now, the suggestion has been made that if the public works fund of three billion three hundred million could take over 30 percent of the total cost of these public works which are now being financed altogether by States and municipalities, if the public works fund could take over the 30 percent which they subscribe to other forms of public works in that fund, it would be possible to take all of these two and one half million people who are now counted as being on the relief rolls-take them off the relief rolls altogether.
Q.
Sentence 95: And put them to work?
Sentence 96: THE PRESIDENT; Continue them on their present work, but give them a little more work so that, for example, the man who is working two days a week and getting ten dollars would get three days.
Sentence 97: Suppose he is a skilled man, a five-dollars-a-day man working two days a week for ten dollars; he would be given work three days a week and would get fifteen dollars, so that he would be actually getting wages instead of work relief.
Sentence 98: There is a great deal to be said for it.
Sentence 99: It represents a slight additional cost to the Federal Government in one sense.
Sentence 100: However, it is not any additional cost in the other sense, because it comes out of the three billion three hundred million just as much as if that were allocated to some other public works on a 30 percent basis.
Sentence 101: But the main point is that it takes two and a half million people off the relief rolls; and there are a lot of people that would rather be off those rolls and working for cash than have their names on the rolls getting relief.
Sentence 102: It adds to the self-respect of the country, and we are trying to find out whether a plan of that kind is a feasible thing to do.
Sentence 103: It would cut the number of families on relief very nearly in half.
Sentence 104: Q. Aren't they doing that to some degree now?
Sentence 105: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 106: They are doing that to a slight degree at the present time.
Sentence 107: Q. I am a little stupid.
Sentence 108: How do you take those two and a half million off the rolls?
Sentence 109: That is what I don't get.
Sentence 110: THE PRESIDENT: Let me give you a very simple example: Suppose you have been out of work for a long time and have to have relief, and suppose you are a five-dollar-a-day man with some kind of trade.
Sentence 111: You have to go and apply for relief.
Sentence 112: You are out of a job— your family starving.
Sentence 113: They say, "All right; go over there to that particular park where we are trying to clean up by putting in new sidewalks and fixing it up.
Sentence 114: We will give you two days a week work and pay you ten dollars."
Sentence 115: You are on the rolls.
Sentence 116: You and your family are on the public rolls and they give you ten dollars a week.
Sentence 117: On the new basis you are employed three days a week and you are taken off the relief rolls entirely.
Sentence 118: Q.
Sentence 119: Who pays for it, the Federal Government or the State?
Sentence 120: THE PRESIDENT: It means today you work two days and get $10.
Sentence 121: Out of that the city and State pay two-thirds and Harry Hopkins the other third.
Sentence 122: On the new basis you get $ 15 and of that $15, 30 percent would come from Harold Ickes as Public Works Administrator, 30 percent of the $15.
Sentence 123: The other 70 percent of the $ 15 would be divided, as it is today, among the State and the municipality and Harry Hopkins.
Sentence 124: Is that clear?
Sentence 125: Q.
Sentence 126: Yes. . . .
Sentence 127: Q.
Sentence 128: What do you think of the Swope plan?
Sentence 129: THE PRESIDENT: I think it is very interesting.
Sentence 130: There were two very good things in the papers this morning.
Sentence 131: Let us talk off the record again.
Sentence 132: One was the editorial in the Wall Street Journal.
Sentence 133: It is very good and very clear.
Sentence 134: The other story, which was very good, contained some excerpts from the speech that Arthur Krock made yesterday.
Sentence 135: And they both fitted in very well together, and they are both very sensible.
Sentence 136: For instance, the Wall Street Journal—I have just marked a couple of things here—the Wall Street Journal says that Mr. Swope evidently accepts this as an inescapable condition of the times.
Sentence 137: So does President Harriman of the United States Chamber of Commerce and so does Floyd Carlisle, if one may judge from his speech to the Bankers Association.
Sentence 138: Then Arthur Krock, in his speech in Toronto, carries out the same theory, "A plan, economic in form," he said of the program, "has been enlarged and fashioned into an instrument of social welfare.
Sentence 139: Its precise aim is to restore the normal flow of trade, raise prices and reduce unemployment.
Sentence 140: "But its larger objective is to bring comfort and living security to the greatest number of people.
Sentence 141: Whether or not you believe it is wise, just, or can work, you should judge it on that basis.
Sentence 142: "
And then he said, further on, "those in charge of our Government policies at this time are not complacent.
Sentence 143: The sufferings of society are uppermost in their minds, and what they are trying to do is to relieve these through new economic measures.
Sentence 144: "
Now, of course Mr. Swope's plan is a very interesting theoretical suggestion in regard to some ultimate development of N.R.A. Probably there will be, in the course of the next two or three months or four months about 499 other plans looking to the future development of this economic and social experiment called N.R.A.
Sentence 145: And I think that all the discussion that there is about it is to the good.
Sentence 146: It does not harm at all because ultimately the mere—what might be called the temporary -mechanics of N.R.A. we have seen going on these past few months will develop into something permanent.
Sentence 147: It will have the twofold object of preventing the tremendous economic swings of the past with a certain amount of pseudo-prosperity at the top and great suffering at the bottom, running down to the depression period when everybody is suffering.
Sentence 148: Trying to build on that should prevent recurrences of the swings and should encourage certain amelioration of the conditions suffered by the people at the bottom.
Sentence 149: Q.
Sentence 150: Do you think the present is the time for the change suggested?
Sentence 151: THE PRESIDENT: No change at this time.
Sentence 152: We still have to work on N.R.A.
Q.
Sentence 153: It would be a question of months?
Sentence 154: THE PRESIDENT: At least, yes.
Sentence 155: Q.
Sentence 156: Do you think the Government should keep control over that ultimate organization or machine for this objective you have outlined?
THE PRESIDENT: The easiest way to answer that is to ask you a question: Do you think that industry is yet able to run itself?
Sentence 157: That is the simplest answer.
Sentence 158: Q.
Sentence 159: Do you want my answer?
Sentence 160: No.
Q. General Johnson said it would not do at all.
Sentence 161: THE PRESIDENT; There is a lot so new from the point of view of Government and industry, that industry has to develop along all kinds of lines in order to make itself capable of running itself.
Sentence 162: They are only beginning.
Sentence 163: They have never attempted before these new conditions they are trying today.
Sentence 164: Take, for instance, shoes.
Sentence 165: We have enough machinery in the country to turn out 900 million pairs of shoes- shoe factories that can turn out that many shoes—and we use in this country only about 300 million pairs of shoes.
Sentence 166: Now, is the shoe industry, as an industry, capable with absolute fairness to every individual, of handling the problem of the excess manufacturing capacity, and at the same time of not preventing the improvement of the shoe industry as a manufacturing unit?
Sentence 167: Now, we don't know.
Sentence 168: They have only just begun.
Sentence 169: At the same time, Government isn't infallible by any means.
Sentence 170: Government is only beginning to learn a lot of these new tricks.
Sentence 171: We are all going to school.
Sentence 172: Q.
Sentence 173: Do you think we will reach such a top?
Sentence 174: THE PRESIDENT: It will never be a top, but better than in the past.
Sentence 175: Q.
Sentence 176: Do you think the industrial magnates will give us a square deal?
Sentence 177: THE PRESIDENT; That all depends on the future. . . .
