Sentence 1: 1933 Fireside Chat Banking

I want to talk for a few minutes with the people of the United States about banking—with the comparatively few who understand the mechanics of banking but more particularly with the overwhelming majority who use banks for the making of deposits and the drawing of checks.
Sentence 2: I want to tell you what has been done in the last few days, why it was done, and what the next steps are going to be.
Sentence 3: I recognize that the many proclamations from State Capitols and from Washington, the legislation, the Treasury regulations, etc., couched for the most part in banking and legal terms, should be explained for the benefit of the average citizen.
Sentence 4: I owe this in particular because of the fortitude and good temper with which everybody has accepted the inconvenience and hardships of the banking holiday.
Sentence 5: I know that when you understand what we in Washington have been about I shall continue to have your cooperation as fully as I have had your sympathy and help during the past week.
Sentence 6: First of all, let me state the simple fact that when you deposit money in a bank the bank does not put the money into a safe deposit vault.
Sentence 7: It invests your money in many different forms of credit—bonds, commercial paper, mortgages and many other kinds of loans.
Sentence 8: In other words, the bank puts your money to work to keep the wheels of industry and of agriculture turning around.
Sentence 9: A comparatively small part of the money you put into the bank is kept in currency—an amount which in normal times is wholly sufficient to cover the cash needs of the average citizen.
Sentence 10: In other words, the total amount of all the currency in the country is only a small fraction of the total deposits in all of the banks.
Sentence 11: What, then, happened during the last few days of February and the first few days of March?
Sentence 12: Because of undermined confidence on the part of the public, there was a general rush by a large portion of our population to turn bank deposits into currency or gold—a rush so great that the soundest banks could not get enough currency to meet the demand.
Sentence 13: The reason for this was that on the spur of the moment it was, of course, impossible to sell perfectly sound assets of a bank and convert them into cash except at panic prices far below their real value.
Sentence 14: By the afternoon of March 3d
[See APP note]
scarcely a bank in the country was open to do business.
Sentence 15: Proclamations temporarily closing them in whole or in part had been issued by the Governors in almost all the States.
Sentence 16: It was then that I issued the proclamation providing for the nationwide bank holiday, and this was the first step in the Government's reconstruction of our financial and economic fabric.
Sentence 17: The second step was the legislation promptly and patriotically passed by the Congress confirming my proclamation and broadening my powers so that it became possible in view of the requirement of time to extend the holiday and lift the ban of that holiday gradually.
Sentence 18: This law also gave authority to develop a program of rehabilitation of our banking facilities.
Sentence 19: I want to tell our citizens in every part of the Nation that the national Congress—Republicans and Democrats alike—showed by this action a devotion to public welfare and a realization of the emergency and the necessity for speed that it is difficult to match in our history.
Sentence 20: The third stage has been the series of regulations permitting the banks to continue their functions to take care of the distribution of food and household necessities and the payment of payrolls.
Sentence 21: This bank holiday, while resulting in many cases in great inconvenience, is affording us the opportunity to supply the currency necessary to meet the situation.
Sentence 22: No sound bank is a dollar worse off than it was when it closed its doors last Monday.
Sentence 23: Neither is any bank which may turn out not to be in a position for immediate opening.
Sentence 24: The new law allows the twelve Federal Reserve Banks to issue additional currency on good assets and thus the banks which reopen will be able to meet every legitimate call.
Sentence 25: The new currency is being sent out by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing in large volume to every part of the country.
Sentence 26: It is sound currency because it is backed by actual, good assets.
Sentence 27: A question you will ask is this: why are all the banks not to be reopened at the same time?
Sentence 28: The answer is simple.
Sentence 29: Your Government does not intend that the history of the past few years shall be repeated.
Sentence 30: We do not want and will not have another epidemic of bank failures.
Sentence 31: As a result, we start tomorrow, Monday, with the opening of banks in the twelve Federal Reserve Bank cities—those banks which on first examination by the Treasury have already been found to be all right.
Sentence 32: This will be followed on Tuesday by the resumption of all their functions by banks already found to be sound in cities where there are recognized clearing houses.
Sentence 33: That means about 250 cities of the United States.
Sentence 34: On Wednesday and succeeding days banks in smaller places all through the country will resume business, subject, of course, to the Government's physical ability to complete its survey.
Sentence 35: It is necessary that the reopening of banks be extended over a period in order to permit the banks to make applications for necessary loans, to obtain currency needed to meet their requirements and to enable the Government to make common sense checkups.
Sentence 36: Let me make it clear to you that if your bank does not open the first day you are by no means justified in believing that it will not open.
Sentence 37: A bank that opens on one of the subsequent days is in exactly the same status as the bank that opens tomorrow.
Sentence 38: I know that many people are worrying about State banks not members of the Federal Reserve System.
Sentence 39: These banks can and will receive assistance from member banks and from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
Sentence 40: These State banks are following the same course as the National banks except that they get their licenses to resume business from the State authorities, and these authorities have been asked by the Secretary of the Treasury to permit their good banks to open up on the same schedule as the national banks.
Sentence 41: I am confident that the State Banking Departments will be as careful as the national Government in the policy relating to the opening of banks and will follow the same broad policy.
Sentence 42: It is possible that when the banks resume a very few people who have not recovered from their fear may again begin withdrawals.
Sentence 43: Let me make it clear that the banks will take care of all needs—and it is my belief that hoarding during the past week has become an exceedingly unfashionable pastime.
Sentence 44: It needs no prophet to tell you that when the people find that they can get their money— that they can get it when they want it for all legitimate purposes—the phantom of fear will soon be laid.
Sentence 45: People will again be glad to have their money where it will be safely taken care of and where they can use it conveniently at any time.
Sentence 46: I can assure you that it is safer to keep your money in a reopened bank than under the mattress.
Sentence 47: The success of our whole great national program depends, of course, upon the cooperation of the public—on its intelligent support and use of a reliable system.
Sentence 48: Remember that the essential accomplishment of the new legislation is that it makes it possible for banks more readily to convert their assets into cash than was the case before.
Sentence 49: More liberal provision has been made for banks to borrow on these assets at the Reserve Banks and more liberal provision has also been made for issuing currency on the security of these good assets.
Sentence 50: This currency is not fiat currency.
Sentence 51: It is issued only on adequate security, and every good bank has an abundance of such security.
Sentence 52: One more point before I close.
Sentence 53: There will be, of course, some banks unable to reopen without being reorganized.
Sentence 54: The new law allows the Government to assist in making these reorganizations quickly and effectively and even allows the Government to subscribe to at least a part of new capital which may be required.
Sentence 55: I hope you can see from this elemental recital of what your Government is doing that there is nothing complex, or radical, in the process.
Sentence 56: We had a bad banking situation.
Sentence 57: Some of our bankers had shown themselves either incompetent or dishonest in their handling of the people's funds.
Sentence 58: They had used the money entrusted to them in speculations and unwise loans.
Sentence 59: This was, of course, not true in the vast majority of our banks, but it was true in enough of them to shock the people for a time into a sense of insecurity and to put them into a frame of mind where they did not differentiate, but seemed to assume that the acts of a comparative few had tainted them all.
Sentence 60: It was the Government's job to straighten out this situation and do it as quickly as possible.
Sentence 61: And the job is being performed.
Sentence 62: I do not promise you that every bank will be reopened or that individual losses will not be suffered, but there will be no losses that possibly could be avoided; and there would have been more and greater losses had we continued to drift.
Sentence 63: I can even promise you salvation for some at least of the sorely pressed banks.
Sentence 64: We shall be engaged not merely in reopening sound banks but in the creation of sound banks through reorganization.
Sentence 65: It has been wonderful to me to catch the note of confidence from all over the country.
Sentence 66: I can never be sufficiently grateful to the people for the loyal support they have given me in their acceptance of the judgment that has dictated our course, even though all our processes may not have seemed clear to them.
Sentence 67: After all, there is an element in the readjustment of our financial system more important than currency, more important than gold, and that is the confidence of the people.
Sentence 68: Confidence and courage are the essentials of success in carrying out our plan.
Sentence 69: You people must have faith; you must not be stampeded by rumors or guesses.
Sentence 70: Let us unite in banishing fear.
Sentence 71: We have provided the machinery to restore our financial system; it is up to you to support and make it work.
Sentence 72: It is your problem no less than it is mine.
Sentence 73: Together we cannot fail.
