Sentence 1: 1933 Inaugural Address 8

I am certain that my fellow Americans expect that on my induction into the Presidency I will address them with a candor and a decision which the present situation of our Nation impels.
Sentence 2: [
See APP note, below.
]
Sentence 3: This is preeminently the time to speak the truth, the whole truth, frankly and boldly.
Sentence 4: Nor need we shrink from honestly facing conditions in our country today.
Sentence 5: This great Nation will endure as it has endured, will revive and will prosper.
Sentence 6: So, first of all, let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself—nameless, unreasoning, unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance.
Sentence 7: In every dark hour of our national life a leadership of frankness and vigor has met with that understanding and support of the people themselves which is essential to victory.
Sentence 8: I am convinced that you will again give that support to leadership in these critical days.
Sentence 9: In such a spirit on my part and on yours we face our common difficulties.
Sentence 10: They concern, thank God, only material things.
Sentence 11: Values have shrunken to fantastic levels; taxes have risen; our ability to pay has fallen; government of all kinds is faced by serious curtailment of income; the means of exchange are frozen in the currents of trade; the withered leaves of industrial enterprise lie on every side; farmers find no markets for their produce; the savings of many years in thousands of families are gone.
Sentence 12: More important, a host of unemployed citizens face the grim problem of existence, and an equally great number toil with little return.
Sentence 13: Only a foolish optimist can deny the dark realities of the moment.
Sentence 14: Yet our distress comes from no failure of substance.
Sentence 15: We are stricken by no plague of locusts.
Sentence 16: Compared with the perils which our forefathers conquered because they believed and were not afraid, we have still much to be thankful for.
Sentence 17: Nature still offers her bounty and human efforts have multiplied it.
Sentence 18: Plenty is at our doorstep, but a generous use of it languishes in the very sight of the supply.
Sentence 19: Primarily this is because rulers of the exchange of mankind's goods have failed through their own stubbornness and their own incompetence, have admitted their failure, and have abdicated.
Sentence 20: Practices of the unscrupulous money changers stand indicted in the court of public opinion, rejected by the hearts and minds of men.
Sentence 21: True they have tried, but their efforts have been cast in the pattern of an outworn tradition.
Sentence 22: Faced by failure of credit they have proposed only the lending of more money.
Sentence 23: Stripped of the lure of profit by which to induce our people to follow their false leadership, they have resorted to exhortations, pleading tearfully for restored confidence.
Sentence 24: They know only the rules of a generation of self-seekers.
Sentence 25: They have no vision, and when there is no vision the people perish.
Sentence 26: The money changers have fled from their high seats in the temple of our civilization.
Sentence 27: We may now restore that temple to the ancient truths.
Sentence 28: The measure of the restoration lies in the extent to which we apply social values more noble than mere monetary profit.
Sentence 29: Happiness lies not in the mere possession of money; it lies in the joy of achievement, in the thrill of creative effort.
Sentence 30: The joy and moral stimulation of work no longer must be forgotten in the mad chase of evanescent profits.
Sentence 31: These dark days will be worth all they cost us if they teach us that our true destiny is not to be ministered unto but to minister to ourselves and to our fellow men.
Sentence 32: Recognition of the falsity of material wealth as the standard of success goes hand in hand with the abandonment of the false belief that public office and high political position are to be valued only by the standards of pride of place and personal profit; and there must be an end to a conduct in banking and in business which too often has given to a sacred trust the likeness of callous and selfish wrongdoing.
Sentence 33: Small wonder that confidence languishes, for it thrives only on honesty, on honor, on the sacredness of obligations, on faithful protection, on unselfish performance; without them it cannot live.
Sentence 34: Restoration calls, however, not for changes in ethics alone.
Sentence 35: This Nation asks for action, and action now.
Sentence 36: Our greatest primary task is to put people to work.
Sentence 37: This is no unsolvable problem if we face it wisely and courageously.
Sentence 38: It can be accomplished in part by direct recruiting by the Government itself, treating the task as we would treat the emergency of a war, but at the same time, through this employment, accomplishing greatly needed projects to stimulate and reorganize the use of our natural resources.
Sentence 39: Hand in hand with this we must frankly recognize the overbalance of population in our industrial centers and, by engaging on a national scale in a redistribution, endeavor to provide a better use of the land for those best fitted for the land.
Sentence 40: The task can be helped by definite efforts to raise the values of agricultural products and with this the power to purchase the output of our cities.
Sentence 41: It can be helped by preventing realistically the tragedy of the growing loss through foreclosure of our small homes and our farms.
Sentence 42: It can be helped by insistence that the Federal, State, and local governments act forthwith on the demand that their cost be drastically reduced.
Sentence 43: It can be helped by the unifying of relief activities which today are often scattered, uneconomical, and unequal.
Sentence 44: It can be helped by national planning for and supervision of all forms of transportation and of communications and other utilities which have a definitely public character.
Sentence 45: There are many ways in which it can be helped, but it can never be helped merely by talking about it.
Sentence 46: We must act and act quickly.
Sentence 47: Finally, in our progress toward a resumption of work we require two safeguards against a return of the evils of the old order: there must be a strict supervision of all banking and credits and investments, so that there will be an end to speculation with other people's money; and there must be provision for an adequate but sound currency.
Sentence 48: These are the lines of attack.
Sentence 49: I shall presently urge upon a new Congress, in special session, detailed measures for their fulfillment, and I shall seek the immediate assistance of the several States.
Sentence 50: Through this program of action we address ourselves to putting our own national house in order and making income balance outgo.
Sentence 51: Our international trade relations, though vastly important, are in point of time and necessity secondary to the establishment of a sound national economy.
Sentence 52: I favor as a practical policy the putting of first things first.
Sentence 53: I shall spare no effort to restore world trade by international economic readjustment, but the emergency at home cannot wait on that accomplishment.
Sentence 54: The basic thought that guides these specific means of national recovery is not narrowly nationalistic.
Sentence 55: It is the insistence, as a first considerations, upon the interdependence of the various elements in and parts of the United States—a recognition of the old and permanently important manifestation of the American spirit of the pioneer.
Sentence 56: It is the way to recovery.
Sentence 57: It is the immediate way.
Sentence 58: It is the strongest assurance that the recovery will endure.
Sentence 59: In the field of world policy I would dedicate this Nation to the policy of the good neighbor—the neighbor who resolutely respects himself and, because he does so, respects the rights of others—the neighbor who respects his obligations and respects the sanctity of his agreements in and with a world of neighbors.
Sentence 60: If I read the temper of our people correctly, we now realize as we have never realized before our interdependence on each other; that we cannot merely take but we must give as well; that if we are to go forward, we must move as a trained and loyal army willing to sacrifice for the good of a common discipline, because without such discipline no progress is made, no leadership becomes effective.
Sentence 61: We are, I know, ready and willing to submit our lives and property to such discipline, because it makes possible a leadership which aims at a larger good.
Sentence 62: This I propose to offer, pledging that the larger purposes will bind upon us all as a sacred obligation with a unity of duty hitherto evoked only in time of armed strife.
Sentence 63: With this pledge taken, I assume unhesitatingly the leadership of this great army of our people dedicated to a disciplined attack upon our common problems.
Sentence 64: Action in this image and to this end is feasible under the form of government which we have inherited from our ancestors.
Sentence 65: Our Constitution is so simple and practical that it is possible always to meet extraordinary needs by changes in emphasis and arrangement without loss of essential form.
Sentence 66: That is why our constitutional system has proved itself the most superbly enduring political mechanism the modern world has produced.
Sentence 67: It has met every stress of vast expansion of territory, of foreign wars, of bitter internal strife, of world relations.
Sentence 68: It is to be hoped that the normal balance of Executive and legislative authority may be wholly adequate to meet the unprecedented task before us.
Sentence 69: But it may be that an unprecedented demand and need for undelayed action may call for temporary departure from that normal balance of public procedure.
Sentence 70: I am prepared under my constitutional duty to recommend the measures that a stricken Nation in the midst of a stricken world may require.
Sentence 71: These measures, or such other measures as the Congress may build out of its experience and wisdom, I shall seek, within my constitutional authority, to bring to speedy adoption.
Sentence 72: But in the event that the Congress shall fail to take one of these two courses, and in the event that the national emergency is still critical, I shall not evade the clear course of duty that will then confront me.
Sentence 73: I shall ask the Congress for the one remaining instrument to meet the crisis—broad Executive power to wage a war against the emergency, as great as the power that would be given to me if we were in fact invaded by a foreign foe.
Sentence 74: For the trust reposed in me I will return the courage and the devotion that befit the time.
Sentence 75: I can do no less.
Sentence 76: We face the arduous days that lie before us in the warm courage of national unity; with the clear consciousness of seeking old and precious moral values; with the clean satisfaction that comes from the stern performance of duty by old and young alike.
Sentence 77: We aim at the assurance of a rounded and permanent national life.
Sentence 78: We do not distrust the future of essential democracy.
Sentence 79: The people of the United States have not failed.
Sentence 80: In their need they have registered a mandate that they want direct, vigorous action.
Sentence 81: They have asked for discipline and direction under leadership.
Sentence 82: They have made me the present instrument of their wishes.
Sentence 83: In the spirit of the gift I take it.
Sentence 84: In this dedication of a Nation we humbly ask the blessing of God.
Sentence 85: May He protect each and every one of us.
Sentence 86: May He guide me in the days to come.
