Sentence 1: 1933 Press Conference 29

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: Sorry to keep you waiting, but the Secretary of the Treasury was over, as usual, this morning.
Sentence 3: Q.
Sentence 4: You are kept busy.
Sentence 5: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 6: The Japanese Admiral is coming to see me this morning.
Sentence 7: Steve will tell you all about him.
Sentence 8: Q. Are we going to have a war?
Sentence 9: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 10: I haven't any real news, but I suppose you would like to have me talk a little bit about the two other measures.
Sentence 11: Entirely just for background, the general thought has been this: that even if we can get through the three measures-banking economics, the economy bill and the beer bill—we still shall have done nothing on the constructive side, unless you consider the beer bill partially constructive.
Sentence 12: There are two other matters that I would very much like to get started while the Congress is here—both of them constructive.
Sentence 13: The first is a definite effort to put people to work.
Sentence 14: And the way I would put it is this: Like all very big projects, it is in a sense experimental, therefore we do not want to launch it on too big a scale until we know how practical it is.
Sentence 15: Probably I will send up a message.
Sentence 16: I can't tell you the exact date, but tomorrow if everything goes well.
Sentence 17: The idea is to put people to work in the national forests and on other Government and State properties on work which would not otherwise be done; in other words, work that does not conflict with existing so-called public works.
Sentence 18: I cannot give you the details of it now.
Sentence 19: All I can tell you is that I am working with the Director of the Budget now, to see if we cannot keep the appropriation for it—new money— down as low as we possibly can.
Sentence 20: We think we can pay for a large part of it out of unexpended balances—money heretofore appropriated for other purposes, which would be a very distinct help to the Treasury.
Sentence 21: The other measure is not only a constructive measure but an immediate one, for if it does not go through at this time, it might as well wait until next winter.
Sentence 22: That is the effort to increase the value of farm products.
Sentence 23: The reason for haste on that is perfectly obvious, for if we defer consideration of it until April we probably would not get it through until May or the end of April anyway, and by then a large part of the crops would already be in the ground.
Sentence 24: If we are going to have it apply to this year's crops, it ought to be put through immediately.
Sentence 25: Again I cannot tell you the details of it because they are still working on it.
Sentence 26: Q. Does that include the principal crops?
Sentence 27: THE PRESIDENT: I think, entirely off the record, it will be somewhat along the lines of leasing and certain features of the Smith Cotton Bill.
Sentence 28: Q. Leasing?
Sentence 29: You mean taking marginal land out of the production column?
Sentence 30: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 31: Yes, for the reduction of acreage. . . .
Sentence 32: Q. Anything in plans for putting people to work, does that include a vast public works program?
Sentence 33: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 34: I knew you were going to ask me that question and I am not ready to answer it yet, for this reason.
Sentence 35: This is entirely off the record.
Sentence 36: There are quite a lot of people who would like to see the bill made an all-inclusive bill; in other words, a big public works program, like the Wagner Bill that failed in the last Session, or a modification of it along the La Follette-Costigan lines.
Sentence 37: I don't know yet whether the bill will be made all-inclusive or whether it will be confined principally by the main thought of putting people immediately to work on natural resources.
Sentence 38: Q. Isn't it the program of the Administration to put through that Wagner Bill for unemployment relief?
Sentence 39: THE PRESIDENT: There is enough money in the R.F.C. for direct aid for municipalities for unemployment relief to last until May; therefore it is a grave question as to whether that is the kind of emergency that ought to keep the Congress here.
Sentence 40: Q.
Sentence 41: How many men would be used on the forestry plan?
Sentence 42: THE PRESIDENT: On the national forests, the Forestry Bureau says two hundred thousand men.
Sentence 43: Q.
Sentence 44: What do you mean by the national forests?
Sentence 45: What are the national forests?
Sentence 46: THE PRESIDENT: There is the Shenandoah Forest, the Big Smoky; there is quite a lot of Federal land in Pennsylvania, some in New Hampshire and, of course, there is a very large acreage out west.
Sentence 47: Q.
Sentence 48: What do they do, cut down trees or plant trees?
Sentence 49: THE PRESIDENT: The easiest way to explain it is this: All through the East where, of course, unemployment is relatively the worst with far more people, nearly all of the so-called forest land owned by the Government is second —, third—or fourthgrowth land—what we call "scrub-growth"—which has grown up on it.
Sentence 50: What does that consist of?
Sentence 51: There are probably four or five thousand trees to the average acre—little bits of trees, saplings and so forth.
Sentence 52: Proper forestation is not possible; you will never get a marketable timber growth on that kind of land—just plenty of cordwood and that is about all.
Sentence 53: But with respect to the timber supply, the lumber supply of the country, we are using lumber at the present rate of cutting somewhere around three to four times the rate of the annual growth.
Sentence 54: We are rapidly coming to an end of the natural lumber resources.
Sentence 55: The end is within sight and, unless something is done about it, we will have to become a very large lumber-importing Nation within from twenty to forty years.
Sentence 56: Now, take this second —, third —, fourth-growth land.
Sentence 57: Put men in there.
Sentence 58: Say there are five thousand of these saplings to the acre.
Sentence 59: Go in and cut out four thousand and leave one thousand.
Sentence 60: The men go in there and take out the crooked trees, the dead trees, the bushes, all of which have no value as lumber, and leave approximately one thousand trees to the acre.
Sentence 61: That means that the trees are sufficiently spaced to get plenty of light and air, and that there is not too much of a strain on the soil.
Sentence 62: Those trees then eventually will become a very valuable lumber crop.
Sentence 63: In addition to that, one of our great difficulties all over the country is with fire.
Sentence 64: These men will be put to work in building fire breaks.
Sentence 65: A fire break is merely an operation of cutting a thirty or forty foot swath through the forest, and plowing it up, raking all the leaves and everything possible away from that strip and keeping it clear.
Sentence 66: The regular forest rangers and fire-protection people, in their tours, will then have a great deal better chance of limiting to a small area any fire that breaks out . . . .
Sentence 67: Q.
Sentence 68: Even at a dollar a day pay for a year for these men, the cost is enormous.
Sentence 69: I haven't figured it, but I can see it will run into many millions of dollars.
Sentence 70: I figure where you would need a half a billion or one billion and spend it on this one item.
Sentence 71: THE PRESIDENT: Just for background, speaking on that by way of explanation, these people would be people who are today on the dole.
Sentence 72: They are today performing no useful work, and earning no money.
Sentence 73: Those are the only people we would take—people performing absolutely no work at all and now just being barely supported by communities and States. . . .
Sentence 74: Q. How soon do you think you can get them to work?
Sentence 75: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 76: Three or four weeks—that is, start getting them to work. . . .
Sentence 77: Q. Will this farm bill precede the unemployment bill?
Sentence 78: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know; I haven't got to that yet or the time of sending the message up.
Sentence 79: Then, of course, there is another element in what Ernest Lindley (one of the correspondents) asked about paying these people wages.
Sentence 80: It will help to relieve their own families.
Sentence 81: If a family man is taken, he will send a large part of it back home, and that relieves the community too. . . .
Sentence 82: Q.
Sentence 83: I understand that some of the features of this farm bill will be presented to the International Economic Conference to make it international, putting this country on the same basis.
Sentence 84: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 85: No, I think the only thing on that is this: There are certain crops like wheat where the world surplus is comparatively small.
Sentence 86: It is only from 10 to 15 percent.
Sentence 87: Therefore, if the wheat-producing Nations can reduce pro rata to that extent, it will help very much to solve the world price of wheat—to raise the world price of wheat as well as our own.
Sentence 88: Obviously if we can raise the world wheat price to a proper level, the need for continuing with an acreage-reducing plan in this country would not be so great.
Sentence 89: Now, the surplus wheat-producing Nations besides ourselves are Canada, Australia, Argentina, Russia and the Balkans.
Sentence 90: I think you can say—I shall say this entirely off the record—Russia is today probably, so far as we know, not in a position to do very much wheat exporting, for they need their own wheat.
Sentence 91: The last wheat conference in 1929—somewhere along that, 1928 or 1929—failed largely because we, the United States, would not go along with any effort to reduce our own surplus production.
Sentence 92: Yet today we are going to take the first step looking toward world surplus reduction.
Sentence 93: And if Canada, Australia, Argentina and the Balkans go along with us, we have a possibility of an international agreement to cut the world wheat surplus and in that way to take a possible practical step in world economics.
Sentence 94: Q.
Sentence 95: It will be brought out at this economic conference, won't it, or at some further conference?
Sentence 96: THE PRESIDENT: It is on the agenda; it might be brought up ahead of it to get it out of the way.
Sentence 97: Q. Has it been taken up diplomatically already?
Sentence 98: THE PRESIDENT: I should say it has been taken up wholly unofficially so far.
Sentence 99: Right, Steve?
MR. EARLY:
Sentence 100: Right, sir.
Sentence 101: Q.
Sentence 102: Can we use this?
Sentence 103: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 104: For background it is all right.
Sentence 105: Q. Is it permanent legislation?
Sentence 106: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Sentence 107: Obviously a farm bill is in the nature of an experiment.
Sentence 108: We all recognize that.
Sentence 109: My position toward farm legislation is that we ought to try to do something to increase the value of farm products and if the darn thing doesn't work, we can say so quite frankly, but at least try it.
Sentence 110: Q. Aren't there other crops where the same sort of agreement could be reached?
Sentence 111: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 112: Yes, very distinctly. . .
Sentence 113: .
Sentence 114: Q. Do you want to say anything about the bank situation, Mr. President?
Sentence 115: It seems to be working very well.
Sentence 116: THE PRESIDENT: No, except, off the record, that there is one fellow responsible for its working so well and that is Bill Woodin (Secretary of the Treasury).
Sentence 117: He has done a perfectly grand job, and has been up day and night, literally.
Sentence 118: It is really wonderful the way Bill came down here and took hold of a thing he had never had any experience at before.
Sentence 119: I think what he has done would be a credit to anybody. . . .
