Sentence 1: 1934 Remarks Devils Lake North Dakota

Senator Nye, my friends of North Dakota:
I cannot honestly say that my heart is happy today, because I have seen with my own eyes some of the things that I have been reading and hearing about for a year and more.
Sentence 2: The reason I came here was that I wanted to see something at first hand of a problem that has perplexed me and perplexed many other people ever since I have been in office.
Sentence 3: It is a problem.
Sentence 4: I would not try to fool you by saying we know the solution of it.
Sentence 5: We do not.
Sentence 6: I believe in being frank, and what I can tell you from the bottom of my heart, truthfully, is this: If it is possible for us to solve the problem, we are going to do it.
Sentence 7: I saw some signs along the road that said: "You gave us beer, now give us water.
Sentence 8: "Well, the beer part was easy.
Sentence 9: That was something that could be controlled very definitely by human agency.
Sentence 10: It was a question of what the people of this country wanted and when they made it clear they wanted beer back again, they got it.
Sentence 11: But, when you come to this water problem through here, you are up against two things.
Sentence 12: In the first place you are up against the forces of nature and, secondly, you are up against the fact that man, in his present stage of development, cannot definitely control those forces.
Sentence 13: I think it was more than a year ago that the delegation of this State, in the Senate and the House, first talked to me about the problem of this watershed in Northern North Dakota.
Sentence 14: I have been studying it ever since.
Sentence 15: It is all very well to say, "Let's have a dam across the Missouri River."
Sentence 16: I would love to do it, but when a great many engineers tell me they have not found a safe place for that dam, there is not a man or woman in the Devils Lake area who would ask me to build a dam that might go out and drown many thousand people.
Sentence 17: In other words, I have a responsibility.
Sentence 18: I cannot build a dam unless I have the best engineering assurance that it is not only the right thing to do, but the safe thing to do.
Sentence 19: And, the result is, my friends, that today there is more of what you might call Government talent, experts from different departments in the Government service, fine people with good knowledge and training.
Sentence 20: They are getting the views of civilians and State employees and are trying to find a solution of this problem.
Sentence 21: Soon after I get back to Washington many of the studies being made this summer by engineering and agricultural officials will be completed.
Sentence 22: I expect to confer within the next few weeks with all of the experts.
Sentence 23: I shall give an opportunity to people who do not agree with their conclusions to come and be heard.
Sentence 24: As you know, I believe in action.
Sentence 25: On the 4th of March, 1933, we had a parallel.
Sentence 26: It was not just one section of one State or a few sections in a few States.
Sentence 27: It was the whole of the United States.
Sentence 28: The United States was up against it.
Sentence 29: I asked the people of the United States at that time' to have courage and faith.
Sentence 30: They did.
Sentence 31: Today, out here, I do not ask you to have courage and faith.
Sentence 32: You have it.
Sentence 33: You have demonstrated that through a good many years.
Sentence 34: I am asking, however, that you keep up that courage and, especially, keep up the faith.
Sentence 35: If it is possible for Government to improve conditions in this State, Government will do it.
Sentence 36: I assure you the interests of these communities are very close to my heart.
Sentence 37: I am not going to forget the day I have spent with you.
Sentence 38: We hope that Nature is going to open the Heavens.
Sentence 39: When I came out on the platform this morning and saw a rather dark cloud, I said to myself, "Maybe it is going to rain."
Sentence 40: Well, it did not.
Sentence 41: All I can say is, I hope to goodness it is going to rain, good and plenty.
Sentence 42: My friends, I want to tell you that I am glad I came here.
Sentence 43: I want to tell you that I am not going to let up until I can give my best service to solving the problems of North Dakota.
