Sentence 1: 1934 Remarks Hawaii

Governor Poindexter, my friends and fellow Americans of the Territory of Hawaii:
I leave you today with reluctance, for the friendly spirit and the generous reception given me everywhere by the people of the Islands of the Territory make me greatly wish that my visit could be prolonged.
Sentence 2: I leave also with pride in Hawaii—pride in your patriotism and in your accomplishments.
Sentence 3: The problems you are solving are the problems of the whole Nation, and your Administration in Washington will not forget that you are in very truth an integral part of the Nation.
Sentence 4: In a fine old prayer for our country are found these words: "Fashion into one happy people those brought hither out of many kindreds and tongues."
Sentence 5: That prayer is.
Sentence 6: being answered in the Territory of Hawaii.
Sentence 7: You have a fine historic tradition in the ancient people of the Islands and I am glad that this is so well maintained.
Sentence 8: You have built on it—built on it wisely-and today men and women and children from many lands are united in loyalty to and understanding of the high purposes of America.
Sentence 9: You are doing much to improve the standards of living of the average of your citizenry.
Sentence 10: This is as it should be, and I hope that you will put forth every effort to make still further progress.
Sentence 11: There are indeed many parts of the mainland where economic and educational levels do not come up to those which I find here.
Sentence 12: May I compliment you also on the excellent appearance of neatness and cleanliness in the homes which I have seen in all parts of the Islands?
Sentence 13: They deserve emulation in every part of the Nation.
Sentence 14: And on leaving, I want to say a word of congratulation on the efficiency and fine spirit of the Army and Navy forces of which I am Commander-in-Chief.
Sentence 15: They constitute an integral part of our national defense, and I stress the word, "defense."
Sentence 16: They must ever be considered an instrument of continuing peace, for our Nation's policy seeks peace and does not look to imperialistic aims.
Sentence 17: And so, my friends, I leave you my gratitude for all the kindnesses you have shown me.
Sentence 18: I carry with me the hope that I shall have the opportunity to return.
Sentence 19: My friends, I shall ever remember these days—days that are all too short—your flowers, your scenery, your hospitality, but, above all, the knowledge that America can well be proud of the Territory of Hawaii.
Sentence 20: And so I say to you: "Aloha from the bottom of my heart."
