Sentence 1: 1935 Address The Dedication Boulder Dam

Senator Pittman, Secretary Ickes, Governors of the Colorado's States, and you especially who have built Boulder Dam:
Sentence 2: This morning I came, I saw and I was conquered, as everyone would be who sees for the first time this great feat of mankind.
Sentence 3: Ten years ago the place where we are gathered was an unpeopled, forbidding desert.
Sentence 4: In the bottom of a gloomy canyon, whose precipitous walls rose to a height of more than a thousand feet, flowed a turbulent, dangerous river.
Sentence 5: The mountains on either side of the canyon were difficult of access with neither road nor trail, and their rocks were protected by neither trees nor grass from the blazing heat of the sun.
Sentence 6: The site of Boulder City was a cactus-covered waste.
Sentence 7: The transformation wrought here in these years is a twentieth-century marvel.
Sentence 8: We are here to celebrate the completion of the greatest dam in the world, rising 726 feet above the bed-rock of the river and altering the geography of a whole region; we are here to see the creation of the largest artificial lake in the world—115 miles long, holding enough water, for example, to cover the State of Connecticut to a depth of ten feet; and we are here to see nearing completion a power house which will contain the largest generators and turbines yet installed in this country, machinery that can continuously supply nearly two million horsepower of electric energy.
Sentence 9: All these dimensions are superlative.
Sentence 10: They represent and embody the accumulated engineering knowledge and experience of centuries; and when we behold them it is fitting that we pay tribute to the genius of their designers.
Sentence 11: We recognize also the energy, resourcefulness and zeal of the builders, who, under the greatest physical obstacles, have pushed this work forward to completion two years in advance of the contract requirements.
Sentence 12: But especially, we express our gratitude to the thousands of workers who gave brain and brawn to this great work of construction.
Sentence 13: Beautiful and great as this structure is, it must also be considered in its relationship to the agricultural and industrial development and in its contribution to the health and comfort of the people of America who live in the Southwest.
Sentence 14: To divert and distribute the waters of an arid region, so that there shall be security of rights and efficiency in service, is one of the greatest problems of law and of administration to be found in any Government.
Sentence 15: The farms, the cities, the people who live along the many thousands of miles of this river and its tributaries —all of them depend upon the conservation, the regulation, and the equitable division of its ever-changing water supply.
Sentence 16: What has been accomplished on the Colorado in working out such a scheme of distribution is inspiring to the whole country.
Sentence 17: Through the cooperation of the States whose people depend upon this river, and of the Federal Government which is concerned in the general welfare, there is being constructed' a system of distributive works and of laws and practices which will insure to the millions of people who now dwell in this basin, and the millions of others who will come to dwell here in future generations, a just, safe and permanent system of water rights.
Sentence 18: In devising these policies and the means for putting them into practice the Bureau of Reclamation of the Federal Government has taken, and is destined to take in the future, a leading and helpful part.
Sentence 19: The Bureau has been the instrument which gave effect to the legislation introduced in Congress by Senator Hiram Johnson and Congressman Phil Swing.
Sentence 20: We know that, as an unregulated river, the Colorado added little of value to the region this dam serves.
Sentence 21: When in flood the river was a threatening torrent.
Sentence 22: In the dry months of the year it shrank to a trickling stream.
Sentence 23: For a generation the people of Imperial Valley had lived in the shadow of disaster from this river which provided their livelihood, and which is the foundation of their hopes for themselves and their children.
Sentence 24: Every spring they awaited with dread the coming of a flood, and at the end of nearly every summer they feared a shortage of water would destroy their crops.
Sentence 25: The gates of these great diversion tunnels were closed here at Boulder Dam last February.
Sentence 26: In June a great flood came down the river.
Sentence 27: It came roaring down the canyons of the Colorado, through Grand Canyon, Iceberg and Boulder Canyons, but it was caught and safely held behind Boulder Dam.
Sentence 28: Last year a drought of unprecedented severity was visited upon the West.
Sentence 29: The watershed of this Colorado River did not escape.
Sentence 30: In July the canals of the Imperial Valley went dry.
Sentence 31: Crop losses in that Valley alone totaled $10,000,000 that summer.
Sentence 32: Had Boulder Dam been completed one year earlier, this loss would have been prevented, because the spring flood would have been stored to furnish a steady water supply for the long dry summer and fall.
Sentence 33: Across the San Jacinto Mountains southwest of Boulder Dam, the cities of Southern California are constructing an aqueduct to cost $220,000,000, which they have raised, for the purpose of carrying the regulated waters of the Colorado River to the Pacific Coast 259 miles away.
Sentence 34: Across the desert and mountains to the west and south run great electric transmission lines by which factory motors, street and household lights and irrigation pumps will be operated in Southern Arizona and California.
Sentence 35: Part of this power will be used in pumping the water through the aqueduct to supplement the domestic supplies of Los Angeles and surrounding cities.
Sentence 36: Navigation of the river from Boulder Dam to the Grand Canyon has been made possible, a 115-mile stretch that has been traversed less than half a dozen times in history.
Sentence 37: An immense new park has been created for the enjoyment of all our people.
Sentence 38: At what cost was this done?
Sentence 39: Boulder Dam and the power houses together cost a total of $108,000,000, all of which will be repaid with interest in fifty years under the contracts for sale of the power.
Sentence 40: Under these contracts, already completed, not only will the cost be repaid, but the way is opened for the provision of needed light and power to the consumer at reduced rates.
Sentence 41: In the expenditure of the price of Boulder Dam during the depression years work was provided for 4,000 men, most of them heads of families, and many thousands more were enabled to earn a livelihood through manufacture of materials and machinery.
Sentence 42: And this picture is true on different scales in regard to the thousands of projects undertaken by the Federal Government, by the States and by the counties and municipalities in recent years.
Sentence 43: The .overwhelming majority of them are of definite and permanent usefulness.
Sentence 44: Throughout our national history we have had a great program of public improvements, and in these past two years all that we have done has been to accelerate that program.
Sentence 45: We know, too, that the reason for this speeding up was the need of giving relief to several million men and women whose earning capacity had been destroyed by the complexities and lack of thought of the economic system of the past generation.
Sentence 46: No sensible person is foolish enough to draw hard and fast classifications as to usefulness or need.
Sentence 47: Obviously, for instance, this great Boulder Dam warrants universal approval because it will prevent floods and flood damage, because it will irrigate thousands of acres of tillable land and because it will generate electricity to turn the wheels of many factories and illuminate countless homes.
Sentence 48: But can we say that a five-foot brushwood dam across the head waters of an arroyo, and costing only a millionth part of Boulder Dam, is an undesirable project or a waste of money?
Sentence 49: Can we say that the great brick high school, costing $2,000,000, is a useful expenditure but that a little wooden school house project, costing five or ten thousand dollars, is a wasteful extravagance?
Sentence 50: Is it fair to approve a huge city boulevard and, at the same time, disapprove the improvement of a muddy farm-to-market road?
While we do all of this, we give actual work to the unemployed and at the same time we add to the wealth and assets of the Nation.
Sentence 51: These efforts meet with the approval of the people of the Nation.
Sentence 52: In a little over two years this great national work has accomplished much.
Sentence 53: We have helped mankind by the works themselves and, at the same time, we have created the necessary purchasing power to throw in the clutch to start the wheels of what we call private industry.
Sentence 54: Such expenditures on all of these works, great and small, flow out to many beneficiaries; they revive other and more remote industries and businesses.
Sentence 55: Money is put in circulation.
Sentence 56: Credit is expanded and the financial and industrial mechanism of America is stimulated to more and more activity.
Sentence 57: Labor makes wealth.
Sentence 58: The use of materials makes wealth.
Sentence 59: To employ workers and materials when private employment has failed is to translate into great national possessions the energy that otherwise would be wasted.
Sentence 60: Boulder Dam is a splendid symbol of that principle.
Sentence 61: The mighty waters of the Colorado were running unused to the sea.
Sentence 62: Today we translate them into a great national possession.
Sentence 63: I might go further and suggest to you that use begets use.
Sentence 64: Such works as this serve as a means of making useful other national possessions.
Sentence 65: Vast deposits of precious metals are scattered within a short distance of where we stand today.
Sentence 66: They await the development of cheap power.
Sentence 67: These great Government power projects will affect not only the development of agriculture and industry and mining in the sections that they serve, but they will also prove useful yardsticks to measure the cost of power throughout the United States.
Sentence 68: It is my belief that the Government should proceed to lay down the first yardstick from this great power plant in the form of a State power line, assisted in its financing by the Government, and tapping the wonderful natural resources of Southern Nevada.
Sentence 69: Doubtless the same policy of financial assistance to State authorities can be followed in the development of Nevada's sister State, Arizona, on the other side of the River.
Sentence 70: With it all, with work proceeding in every one of the more than three thousand counties m the United States, and of a vastly greater number of local divisions of Government, the actual credit of Government agencies is on a stronger and safer basis than at any time in the past six years.
Sentence 71: Many States have actually improved their financial position in the past two years.
Sentence 72: Municipal tax receipts are being paid when the taxes fall due, and tax arrearages are steadily declining.
Sentence 73: It is a simple fact that Government spending is already beginning to show definite signs of its effect on consumer spending; that the putting of people to work by the Government has put other people to work through private employment, and that in two years and a half we have come to the point today where private industry must bear the principal responsibility of keeping the processes of greater employment moving forward with accelerated speed.
Sentence 74: The people of the United States are proud of Boulder Dam.
Sentence 75: With the exception of the few who are narrow visioned, people everywhere on the Atlantic Seaboard, people in the Middle West and the Northwest, people in the South, must surely recognize that the national benefits which will be derived from the completion of this project will make themselves felt in every one of the forty-eight States.
Sentence 76: They know that poverty or distress in a community two thousand miles away may affect them, and equally that prosperity and higher standards of living across a whole continent will help them back home.
Sentence 77: Today marks the official completion and dedication of Boulder Dam, the first of four great Government regional units.
Sentence 78: This is an engineering victory of the first order—another great achievement of American resourcefulness, American skill and determination.
Sentence 79: That is why I have the right once more to congratulate you who have built Boulder Dam and on behalf of the Nation to say to you, "Well done."
