Sentence 1: 1935 Press Conference 23

THE PRESIDENT: What is the news?
Q. (Francis Stephenson)
Sentence 2: That's what we want.
Sentence 3: THE PRESIDENT: Have you any questions to ask?
Q.
Sentence 4: What did you do yesterday outside of seeing Mr. Richberg?
Sentence 5: THE PRESIDENT: I saw lots of people.
Sentence 6: I telephoned to a lot more, and I am continuing to do it.
Sentence 7: Q. Do you care to comment any on the N.R.A.?
Sentence 8: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 9: Well, Steve, if you insist.
Sentence 10: That's an awful thing to put up to a fellow at this hour of the morning just out of bed.
Sentence 11: Suppose we make this background and take some time because it is an awfully big subject to cover, and it is just possible that one or two of you may not have read the whole twenty-eight or twenty-nine pages of the Supreme Court decision.
Sentence 12: I have been a good deal impressed by—what shall I call it?—the rather pathetic appeals that I have had from all around the country to do something.
Sentence 13: They are very sincere as showing faith in the Government.
Sentence 14: They are so sincere that you feel in reading them—and so far there have been somewhere between two and three thousand by letter and telegram and I haven't seen this morning's mail yet—so sincere that you feel the country is beginning to realize that something in the long run has to be done.
Sentence 15: And they are all hoping that something will be done right away.
Sentence 16: I think probably the best way to illustrate it is to read you just a few telegrams that came out of this huge pile.
Sentence 17: They are all from business men, every one.
Sentence 18: I took out only the telegrams from business men.
Sentence 19: And they illustrate pretty well that the information that they have received since Monday through the press and through the radio has failed to explain to them the implications of the Supreme Court's decision.
Sentence 20: In other words, they are groping, and they have not yet had information from either the press or the radio or from me, which would put this situation in plain, lay language.
Sentence 21: Well, for instance, here is one from Indiana.
Sentence 22: A State association of small—well, they are drug-store people.
Sentence 23: They start off:
"We commend you for what you have done to protect the small business man from ruthless destructive trade practices.
Sentence 24: We hope you will continue your sincere efforts to the end that Constitutional legislation be enacted that will save the small business man from eventual extinction."
Sentence 25: In other words, "Mr. President, do please get some constitutional legislation that will save us.
Sentence 26: "
Here is one from Jackson, Mississippi.
Sentence 27: This is another association of small business men.
Sentence 28: "Stabilization of business through codes has been of untold value to America.
Sentence 29: We cannot urge you too strongly to seek some plan to further the great work.
Sentence 30: Unless the use of loss leaders by chain store vultures is prohibited the small independent merchants will be the greatest sufferers.
Sentence 31: "Here is one from New York:
"'I respectfully appeal to you to issue a proclamation to uphold the N.R.A. and I suggest that the same be brought to the people for a vote.
Sentence 32: A crisis exists.
Sentence 33: Congress represents the electors and this will give you full power.
Sentence 34: "I am just giving you this to show the state of mind of people in the country because the situation has never been explained to them as yet.
Sentence 35: Here is a man from Hastings.
Sentence 36: He says:
"Suggest you get button out.
Sentence 37: 'I am for the N.R.A.
'"That is his solution.
Sentence 38: Here is a man from Westchester County.
Sentence 39: He says:
"My business was well on the way to recovery under the N.R.A. cigarette and cigar code.
Sentence 40: All indications point to conditions more chaotic than when you took office.
Sentence 41: Prices are being ruthlessly slashed.
Sentence 42: I, like all other small retailers, am keeping my faith in you to keep me from losing my business.
Sentence 43: Save the people."
Sentence 44: In other words, "Mr. President, please save me.
Sentence 45: "Here is another man.'
"Sincerely hope that you may be able to do something to replace the National Recovery Act in a legal form.
Sentence 46: Gladly admit that before the birth of the Act our business was very far below par and because of a code in our industry we made money in the past year which under the new conditions we cannot in the future.
Sentence 47: It would be a shame at this late date if the chiselers which you so properly dubbed them early in your Administration won this great battle.
Sentence 48: I would hate ever again to see Wall Street and utilities in control of the Government of the United States.
Sentence 49: I heard one hotel manager today remark now that the Act has been temporarily voided he would not have to pay code prices.
Sentence 50: He would make money in his business by paying his bell boys $3.00 a week and so on down the line.
Sentence 51: "In other words, "Please do something to reestablish the codes.
Sentence 52: "Here is one from Iowa:
"We urge constructive legislation for the protection of the small business man.
Sentence 53: We feel such legislation is imperative if he is to survive.
Sentence 54: "Here is one from New York:
"The battle is on.
Sentence 55: Retailers demanding their pound of flesh.
Sentence 56: Next step sweat shop labor competitions.
Sentence 57: In the name of my hundred employees and our investment we beseech you to restore N.R.A.
"Here is one from Georgia:
"Respectfully call your attention to section of Constitution referring to appellate power: 'The Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction both as to law and fact, with such exceptions and under such regulations as Congress shall make.'
Sentence 58: Suggest act establishing compulsory standard of labor relations and fair trade practices for all industries substantially affecting interstate commerce and creating special court with exclusive jurisdiction there over and excluding appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.
Sentence 59: "That's from a rather prominent lawyer in Atlanta who is also in business.
Sentence 60: That is another angle—another suggestion.
Sentence 61: Here is one from Galveston, Texas:
Sentence 62: "We feel that some law meeting the objections of the Supreme Court should be passed immediately to take the place of N.R.A.
Sentence 63: If this cannot be done by Federal law then think you should urge all States to pass laws to take care of this.
Sentence 64: "
That is another suggestion.
Sentence 65: That is the forty-eight-States man.
Sentence 66: Here is one from White Plains:
"I beg to submit following suggestion for making N.R.A. constitutional.
Sentence 67: Congress has unlimited power regarding income taxes.
Sentence 68: Make N.R.A. technically voluntary under Government sponsorship.
Sentence 69: Increase corporation income tax rate say 25 percent.
Sentence 70: Allow N.R.A. cooperating corporations 25 percent deduction on ground adherence reduces Federal relief costs." . .
Sentence 71: .
Sentence 72: Here is another firm:
"All good citizens are looking to you to exercise whatever power is at your command to prevent business chaos which seems inevitable following Supreme Court decision.
Sentence 73: Already [and then mentioning the name of a very large store] and many smaller people are rashly cutting prices.
Sentence 74: "
Q. Do you mind telling us the city from which that came?
Sentence 75: THE PRESIDENT: I had better not because you might locate the store.
Sentence 76: (Laughter)
Here is one from Pennsylvania:
"I hope your Congress is intelligent enough to quickly come through with a new program that will definitely make your efforts a success and sustain all the good that has been brought about.
Sentence 77: "
That is from a printing company.
Sentence 78: Here is another one:
"Our business crippled by the decision.
Sentence 79: Chiselers already at our throats and have begun choking us.
Sentence 80: Need immediate action.
Sentence 81: "
Here is another one from a Massachusetts small operator in the candy business:
"Price cutting tactics have returned.
Sentence 82: We in this business require protection." . . .
Sentence 83: And so forth and so on.
Sentence 84: I suppose there are several thousand along the same line, mainly from business men.
Sentence 85: Now, coming down to the decision itself.
Sentence 86: What are the implications?
Sentence 87: For the benefit of those of you who haven't read it through I think I can put it this way: the implications of this decision are much more important than almost certainly any decision of my lifetime or yours, more important than any decision probably since the Dred Scott case, because they bring the country as a whole up against a very practical question.
Sentence 88: That is in spite of what one gentleman said in the paper this morning, that I resented the decision.
Sentence 89: Nobody resents a Supreme Court decision.
Sentence 90: You can deplore a Supreme Court decision, and you can point out the effect of it.
Sentence 91: You can call the attention of the country to what the implications are as to the future, what the results of that decision are if future decisions follow this decision.
Sentence 92: Now take the decision itself.
Sentence 93: In the Schechter case the first part of it states the facts in the case, which you all know.
Sentence 94: Then it takes up the code itself and it points out that the code was the result of an Act of Congress.
Sentence 95: It mentions in passing that the Act of Congress was passed in a great emergency and that it sought to improve conditions immediately through the establishing of fair practices, through the prevention of unfair practices.
Sentence 96: It then goes on in general and says that even though it was an emergency, it did not make any difference whether it was an emergency or not, it was unconstitutional because it did not set forth very clearly, in detail, definitions of the broad language which was used in the Act.
Sentence 97: In fact, it says that it makes no difference what kind of emergency this country ever gets into, an Act has to be constitutional.
Sentence 98: Of course, it might take a month or two of delay to make an Act constitutional and then you wouldn't know whether it was constitutional or not—you would have to do the best you could.
Sentence 99: Now, they have pointed out in regard to this particular Act that it was unconstitutional because it delegated certain powers which should have been written into the Act itself.
Sentence 100: And then there is this interesting language that bears that out.
Sentence 101: It is on page eight.
Sentence 102: "We are told that the provisions of the statute authorizing the adoption of the codes must be viewed in the light of the grave national crisis with which Congress was confronted.
Sentence 103: Undoubtedly, the conditions to which power is addressed are always to be considered when the exercise of power is challenged.
Sentence 104: Extraordinary conditions may call for extraordinary remedies.
Sentence 105: But the argument necessarily stops short of an attempt to justify action which lies outside the sphere of constitutional authority.
Sentence 106: Extraordinary conditions do not create or enlarge constitutional power.
Sentence 107: "
Of course, that is a very interesting implication.
Sentence 108: Some of us are old enough to remember the war days—the legislation that was passed in April, May and June of 1917.
Sentence 109: Being a war, that legislation was never brought before the Supreme Court.
Sentence 110: Of course, as a matter of fact, a great deal of that legislation was far more violative of the strict interpretation of the Constitution than any legislation that was passed in 1933.
Sentence 111: All one has to do is to go back and read those war acts which conferred upon the Executive far greater power over human beings and over property than anything that was done in
1933.
Sentence 112: But the Supreme Court has finally ruled that extraordinary conditions do not create or enlarge constitutional power!
Sentence 113: It is a very interesting statement on the part of the Court.
Sentence 114: However, the question of the delegation of legislative power is not so very important in this particular case because the Supreme Court has at least intimated that in so far as the delegation of power was concerned, the language of the Act could have been so improved as to give definite directions to administrative or quasi-judicial bodies and in that respect it refers to the methods already used in the case of the Federal Trade Commission and cites that with approval.
Sentence 115: In other words, for the future the delegation of power is not an unsurmountable object, and undoubtedly an Act could be written which would in general conform to this opinion of the Supreme Court as to delegated powers—get that!
Sentence 116: So that is not the most serious implication yet.
Sentence 117: However, you come down to something else which is the most important implication, and that relates to interstate commerce.
Sentence 118: Before I go on to the other point there is one interesting paragraph on page eighteen in regard to the delegation of powers.
Sentence 119: "Section 3 of the Recovery Act is without precedent.
Sentence 120: It supplies no standards for any trade, industry or activity.
Sentence 121: It does not undertake to prescribe rules of conduct to be applied to particular states of fact determined by appropriate administrative procedure.
Sentence 122: Instead of prescribing rules of conduct,"
it only prescribed, if you remember, objectives to be sought—
"it authorizes the making of codes to prescribe them.
Sentence 123: For that legislative undertaking, Section 3 sets up no standards, aside from the statement of the general aims of rehabilitation, correction and expansion described in Section 1.
Sentence 124: In view of the scope of that broad declaration, and of the nature of the few restrictions that are imposed, the discretion of the President in approving or prescribing codes, and thus enacting laws for the government of trade and industry throughout the country, is virtually unfettered.
Sentence 125: We think that the code-making authority thus conferred is an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power."
Of course, there is a good deal said in the opinion about the imposing of codes.
Sentence 126: As I remember it there was only one code imposed and that was the alcohol code.
Sentence 127: I don't think there was any other code imposed by Executive Order.
Sentence 128: Now we come down to this big thing.
Sentence 129: The implication of the provisions as applied to intrastate transactions.
Sentence 130: Why is it—let me put it this way—why is it that so many of these telegrams are futile?
Sentence 131: Why is it that so many of these letters and telegrams show that the senders do not realize what the rest of this decision means?
Sentence 132: Let's put the decision in plain lay language in regard to at least the dictum of the Court and never mind this particular sick chicken or whatever they call it.
Sentence 133: That was a question of fact, but of course the Court in ruling on the question of fact about these particular chickens said they were killed in New York and sold and probably eaten in New York, and therefore it was probably intrastate commerce.
Sentence 134: But of course the Court does not stop there.
Sentence 135: In fact the Court in this decision, at least by dictum—and remember that dictum is not always followed in the future—has gone back to the old Knight case in 1885, which in fact limited any application of interstate commerce to goods in transit—nothing else!
Sentence 136: Since 1885 the Court in various decisions has enlarged on the definition of interstate commerce-railroad cases, coal cases and so forth and so on.
Sentence 137: It was clearly the opinion of the Congress before this decision and the opinion of various attorneys-general, regardless of party, that the words "interstate commerce" applied not only to an actual shipment of goods but also to a great many other things that affected interstate commerce. . . .
Sentence 138: The whole tendency over these years has been to view the interstate commerce clause in the light of present-day civilization.
Sentence 139: The country was in the horse-and-buggy age when that clause was written and if you go back to the debates on the Federal Constitution you will find in 1787 that one of the impelling motives for putting in that clause was this: There wasn't much interstate commerce at all—probably 80 or 90 percent of the human beings in the thirteen original States were completely self-supporting within their own communities.
Sentence 140: They got their own food, their own clothes; they swapped or bought with any old kind of currency, because we had thirteen different kinds of currency.
Sentence 141: They bought from their neighbors and sold to their neighbors.
Sentence 142: However, there was quite a fear that each of the thirteen States could impose tariff barriers against each other and they ruled that out.
Sentence 143: They would not let the States impose tariff barriers, but they were afraid that the lawyers of that day would find some other method by which a State could discriminate against its neighbors on one side or the other, or discriminate in favor of its neighbors on one side or the other.
Sentence 144: Therefore, the interstate commerce clause was put into the Constitution with the general objective of preventing discrimination by one of these Sovereign States against another Sovereign State.
Sentence 145: They had in those days no problems relating to employment.
Sentence 146: They had no problems relating to the earning capacity of people—what the man in Massachusetts earned, what his buying power was.
Sentence 147: Nobody had ever thought of what the wages were or the buying capacity in the slave-holding States of the South.
Sentence 148: There were no social questions in those days.
Sentence 149: The question of health on a national basis had never been discussed.
Sentence 150: The question of fair business practices had never been discussed.
Sentence 151: The word was unknown in the vocabulary of the Founding Fathers.
Sentence 152: The ethics of the period were very different from what they are today.
Sentence 153: If one man could skin a fellow and get away with it, why, that was all right.
Sentence 154: In other words, the whole picture was a different one when the interstate commerce clause was put into the Constitution from what it is now.
Sentence 155: Since that time, because of the improvement in transportation, because of the fact that, as we know, what happens in one State has a good deal of influence on the people in another State, we have developed an entirely different philosophy.
Sentence 156: The prosperity of the farmer does have an effect today on the manufacturer in Pittsburgh.
Sentence 157: The prosperity of the clothing worker in the city of New York has an effect on the prosperity of the farmer in Wisconsin, and so it goes.
Sentence 158: We are interdependent—we are tied in together.
Sentence 159: And the hope has been that we could, through a period of years, interpret the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution in the light of these new things that have come to the country.
Sentence 160: It has been our hope that under the interstate commerce clause we could recognize by legislation and by judicial decision that a harmful practice in one section of the country could be prevented on the theory that it was doing harm to another section of the country.
Sentence 161: That was why the Congress for a good many years, and most lawyers, have had the thought that in drafting legislation we could depend on an interpretation that would enlarge the Constitutional meaning of interstate commerce to include not only those matters of direct interstate commerce, but also those matters which indirectly affect interstate commerce.
Sentence 162: The implication, largely because of what we call obiter dicta in this opinion, the implication of this opinion is that we have gone back, that the Supreme Court will no longer take into consideration anything that indirectly may affect interstate commerce.
Sentence 163: That hereafter they will decide the only thing in interstate commerce over which they can permit the exercise of Federal jurisdiction is goods in transit plus, perhaps, a very small number of transactions which would directly affect goods in transit.
Sentence 164: Furthermore, they say on page 19, "(1) Were these transactions 'in' interstate commerce?
Sentence 165: Much is made of the fact that almost all the poultry coming to New York is sent there from other States" . . .
Sentence 166: "When defendants had made their purchases, whether at the West Washington Market in New York City or at the railroad terminals serving the City, or elsewhere, the poultry was trucked to their slaughter houses in Brooklyn for local disposition.
Sentence 167: The interstate transactions in relation to that poultry then ended.
Sentence 168: "
Then to come to the next point, they take one very interesting stand; first they talk about necessary and well-established distinctions between the direct and indirect effects.
Sentence 169: They quote a number of cases and finally come down to the quotation from Industrial Association vs. United States at the top of page 23:
"The alleged conspiracy and the acts here complained of, spent their intended and direct force upon a local situation—for building is as essentially local as mining, manufacturing or growing crops—and if, by a resulting diminution of the commercial demand, interstate trade was curtailed either generally or in specific instances, that was a fortuitous consequence so remote and indirectly as plainly to cause it to fall outside the reach of the Sherman Act.
Sentence 170: "
Now that is interesting because the implication is this: We have in this country about five major human activities.
Sentence 171: One is transportation and that is not listed here.
Sentence 172: The other four are: first, construction.
Sentence 173: I suppose the theory is that the building, even though the materials come from other States and none of the materials come from the locality of the building, that the building is part of the land and therefore that nothing entering into the erection of that building can have anything to do with the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution.
Sentence 174: The next, the third large occupation, is mining—that is to say the taking of coal, oil or copper or anything else out of the ground.
Sentence 175: The implication there is that no matter where the coal or oil or copper goes it cannot be considered to have any relationship to interstate commerce because it came out of one place.
Sentence 176: It was a part of a place or locus.
Sentence 177: Another great occupation is manufacturing.
Sentence 178: The implication is that if I manufacture at Hyde Park, New York, let us say, a national article such as a national brand of tooth paste or a national brand of automobiles while I only sell a few tubes of tooth paste or four or five cars in the place of manufacture at Hyde Park, and sell the rest in interstate commerce, the actual manufacturing itself seems to be so closely tied to the actual factory, that it does not make any difference where the goods go and therefore the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution cannot apply to any of the elements of the manufacturing at that place, either to materials that may come from other States, to the working conditions that obtain in the factory, to the wages paid or to the unfair practices that I as a manufacturer may be engaged in.
Sentence 179: And then finally you have a fifth great occupation of human life—the growing of crops.
Sentence 180: It evidently does not make any difference, after I grow my wheat, whether it is put in an elevator in a different State, perhaps to be commingled with other wheat and sold in Liverpool, or New York or Germany or in any other State of the Union—it does not make any difference.
Sentence 181: The fact is that the wheat was grown in one place, and therefore the growing of crops cannot be considered in any shape, manner or form as coming under the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution.
Sentence 182: Perhaps wheat actually in transit under this decision may come under it.
Sentence 183: But it could not if it were in storage, for example in a bin, because there it would be tied to a definite locality.
Sentence 184: And so it does bring us up rather squarely as to the big issue in the country and as to how we are going to solve it.
Sentence 185: The big issue is this: Does this decision mean that the United States Government has no control over any national economic problem?
Sentence 186: The simple example is crop adjustment.
Sentence 187: Are we going to take the hands of the Federal Government completely off any effort to adjust the growing of national crops, and go right straight back to the old principle that every farmer is a lord of his own farm and can do anything he wants, raise anything, any old time, in any quantity, and sell any time he wants?
Sentence 188: You and I know perfectly well that if we completely abandon crop control—I don't care whether it is the present method or, let us say, the McNary-Haugen method, because, after all, that is a Federal method, too—if we are to abandon Federal relationship to any national crop, we shall again have thirty-six-cent wheat.
Sentence 189: You can't stop it.
Sentence 190: Under present world conditions we will have five-cent cotton.
Sentence 191: That is obvious.
Sentence 192: And then you come down to the next series of things-manufacturing.
Sentence 193: We have tried to improve the economic conditions of certain forms of manufacturing.
Sentence 194: I am not talking about the social conditions now.
Sentence 195: I am talking about the economic conditions, giving to manufacturers a chance to eliminate things that we have nationally concluded are not fair.
Sentence 196: For example, the chain stores going into little communities or big communities all over the country and starting a system of loss leaders.
Sentence 197: Of course anybody who does his own marketing, and all you ladies of the press will appreciate this, knows perfectly well that where there is the loss-leader system and you are trying to get along on a budget, you are going to look into the chain-store window and see what the loss leader is each day.
Sentence 198: You may get a can of peas for fourteen cents instead of eighteen cents; naturally you wait and buy the loss leader.
Sentence 199: The chain store can afford to put out loss leaders; but the independent grocery store cannot.
Sentence 200: A number of States—and here we come down to the last question—have attempted to take away the privileges or the advantages that come to very large nationwide businesses, by imposing special taxes on chain stores, but only a few States have succeeded in doing it.
Sentence 201: And that is a very good illustration of the difficulty of correcting economic conditions by forty-eight separate actions.
Sentence 202: We attempted to do it in the codes by getting industry itself to formulate codes that would eliminate loss leaders.
Sentence 203: They did, and as a result the wave of bankruptcies of small stores which was under way throughout the country two years ago was stopped.
Sentence 204: And the volume of telegrams that has come in today leads one to believe that they again face, a great many of them, bankruptcies, or at least they think they do.
Sentence 205: The other example is that of a department store which puts in a book department and sells all the latest detective stories that retail ordinarily at $1.50—I ought to know because I read them—for ninety cents.
Sentence 206: Up to the time that their code went through, bankruptcies of small book stores throughout the country where these practices were engaged in were increasing.
Sentence 207: They were being put out of business because they could not afford to sell $1.50 books for ninety cents.
Sentence 208: The big department stores could afford to do it, because people who went into that department to save sixty cents on a detective story undoubtedly bought a good many other things in that department store, and the store was able to make up the loss.
Sentence 209: Now all that seems to be "out of the window."
Sentence 210: We made a very sincere effort to eliminate things that were called unfair trade practices not only because they were hurting little fellows, but also because they were giving advantages to people with lots of capital or with nationwide systems—advantages over smaller men or local men.
Sentence 211: It seemed to be going pretty well.
Sentence 212: It was done under the general theory that, because these goods came from every part of the United States, there was a rather direct implication that they affected the internal commerce of the United States as a whole, and therefore came under the interstate commerce clause.
Sentence 213: Then we come down to the mines.
Sentence 214: There have been a number of cases about mines, but the implication in this quotation is that mines and mining do not come under interstate commerce.
Sentence 215: It is purely a local thing no matter where the copper or the oil or coal goes.
Sentence 216: It is rather interesting, I think, that there are former decisions of the Supreme Court which have held much more liberally in labor cases, in mining cases where people were trying to get an injunction against labor.
Sentence 217: In those cases the Supreme Court has tended to approve mining injunctions on the ground that the coal was going to go into interstate commerce.
Sentence 218: This case, however, seems to be a direct reversal in saying that where you try to improve the wages and hours of miners, the coal suddenly becomes a purely local intrastate matter and you can't do anything about it.
Sentence 219: Of course, here the shoe is on the other foot.
Sentence 220: Those are the important human occupations affected by this decision, the mining and manufacturing and growing of crops—the important ones.
Sentence 221: Well, what does it do?
Sentence 222: It seems to me it brings-
Sentence 223: oh, I suppose you will want to say an issue.
Sentence 224: I accept the word "issue" on one condition; and that is that you make it very clear that it is not a partisan issue.
Sentence 225: It is infinitely deeper than any partisan issue; it is a national issue.
Sentence 226: Yes, and the issue is this-going back to these telegrams that I have been reading to you: Is the United States going to decide, are the people of this country going to decide that their Federal Government shall in the future have no right under any implied power or any court-approved power to enter into a solution of a national economic problem, but that that national economic problem must be decided only by the States?
Sentence 227: The other part of it is this: Shall we view our social problems- and in that I include employment of all kinds—shall we view them from the same point of view or not; that the Federal Government has no right under this or following opinions to take any part in trying to better national social conditions?
Sentence 228: Now that is flat and that is simple!
Sentence 229: If we accept the point of view that under no interpretation of the Constitution can the Federal Government deal with construction matters, mining matters (which means everything that comes out of the ground), manufacturing matters or agricultural matters, but that they must be left wholly to the States, the Federal Government must abandon any legislation.
Sentence 230: Thus we go back automatically to the fact that there will be not merely thirteen Governments as there were in 1789 at a time where none of these questions existed in the country—but we will go back to a Government of forty-eight States.
Sentence 231: Or we can go ahead with every possible effort to make national decisions based on the fact that forty-eight sovereignties cannot agree quickly enough or practically enough on any solution for a national economic problem or a national social problem.
Sentence 232: When I was in Albany I had the desire of getting through the Legislature on two or three occasions certain bills relating to the improvement of factory conditions and the improvement of labor conditions, and people came to me and said, "If those bills go through we are going to move into Pennsylvania."
That gave to the Chief Executive of one State serious concern.
Sentence 233: Should he force the legislation and let these factories move out of this State into a State that didn't have any restrictions and didn't have nearly as advanced social legislation; or should he go in and leave certain evils just as they were?
Sentence 234: In other words, by the returning of all these powers exclusively to the States you will unavoidably develop sectionalism.
Sentence 235: Just imagine what will happen in the case of the cotton textile industry—the problem of the differential in wage between New England and the South.
Sentence 236: Less than two years ago that differential was more than five dollars a week in favor of the South.
Sentence 237: Under the code system it has been cut to two and a half dollars; and in all human probability if we had gone on under code methods, the differential would gradually have been cut still further.
Sentence 238: They were actually working on an additional cut in the labor differential in the cotton textile industry.
Sentence 239: That, of course, we have had to stop.
Sentence 240: We come down, in passing, to the question of whether they can now live up to these codes.
Sentence 241: We hope so—surely.
Sentence 242: Everybody hopes that the wage agreements and codes will be lived up to, and every effort should be made to have people in every industry live up to the codes.
Sentence 243: I sincerely hope that everybody will live up to them.
Sentence 244: On the other hand, as President, naturally, I have to think of what is going to happen to the country if people, some people, do not live up to them.
Sentence 245: You go back to the same old 90 percent and 10 percent we have talked about so often.
Sentence 246: There are, let's say, 100 of us in this room who are making cotton textiles.
Sentence 247: Each one owns a mill and out of the 100 there are three or four, that is all, who see an advantage to be gained—an immediate advantage of quick profit.
Sentence 248: So they cut their wages, and increase their hours, and go ahead with the stretch-out system beyond the code allowance.
Sentence 249: What is going to happen to us?
Sentence 250: Let us say that it happens to be a mill right next to Charlie Hurd's (one of the correspondents) mill.
Sentence 251: Charlie Hurd, making the same kind of goods, is naturally going to call a meeting and he is going to say, "This fellow over here, Bill Smith, is cutting his wages and increasing his hours and increasing his stretch-out.
Sentence 252: And I am going broke."
Sentence 253: Well, we are going to have an awful lot of sympathy for Charlie Hurd, and what are we going to do about it?
Sentence 254: Probably he would say, "Do you think I ought to go broke?"
Sentence 255: and probably most of us would say, "Why, no; you came 100 percent right straight through, and we will release you from any obligation to keep on with these code practices."
Sentence 256: Being human and in order to keep his head above water, he will probably try to meet the competition of the other fellow; and we wouldn't blame him one bit.
Sentence 257: So it is not a question of fighting industry.
Sentence 258: The great bulk of industry is perfectly sincere and honest in wanting to maintain good wages and fair hours, but the problem is going to be: Can they do it by agreement?
Sentence 259: That is the thing of course we cannot tell between Monday and Friday of this week.
Sentence 260: You and I know human nature.
Sentence 261: Fundamentally it comes down to this.
Sentence 262: In the long run can voluntary processes on the part of business bring about the same practical results that were attained under N.R.A.?
Sentence 263: I mean the good results.
Sentence 264: Of course there have been some bad ones.
Sentence 265: But I mean the good results.
Sentence 266: Can it be done by voluntary action on the part of business?
Sentence 267: Can we go ahead as a Nation with the beautiful theory, let us say, of some of the press, "At last the rule of Christ is restored.
Sentence 268: Business can do anything it wants and business is going to live up to the golden rule so marvelously that all of our troubles are ended."
Sentence 269: It is a school of thought that is so delightful in its naivete.
Sentence 270: And so we are facing a very, very great national non-partisan issue.
Sentence 271: We have got to decide one way or the other.
Sentence 272: I don't mean this summer or winter or next fall, but over a period, perhaps, of five years or ten years we have got to decide: whether we are going to relegate to the forty-eight States practically all control over economic conditions- not only State economic conditions but national economic conditions; and along with that whether we are going to relegate to the States all control over social and working conditions throughout the country regardless of whether those conditions have a very definite significance and effect in other States outside of the individual States.
Sentence 273: That is one side of the picture.
Sentence 274: The other side of the picture is whether in some way we are going to turn over or restore to—whichever way you choose to put it—turn over or restore to the Federal Government the powers which exist in the national Governments of every other Nation in the world to enact and administer laws that have a bearing on, and general control over, national economic problems and national social problems.
Sentence 275: That actually is the biggest question that has come before this country outside of time of war, and it has to be decided.
Sentence 276: And, as I say, it may take five years or ten years.
Sentence 277: This N.R.A. decision—if you accept the obiter dicta and all the phraseology of it—seems to be squarely on the side of restoring to the States forty-eight different controls over national economic and social problems.
Sentence 278: This is not a criticism of the Supreme Court's decision; it is merely pointing out the implications of it.
Sentence 279: In some ways it may be the best thing that has happened to this country for a long time that such a decision has come from the Supreme Court, because it clarifies the issue.
Sentence 280: If the press and the radio of this country can make that issue perfectly clear, it will be doing a very great service.
Sentence 281: The telegrams that I have been reading to you, suggesting every kind of method of overcoming the decision, will not continue to come in, because all except a very few of them suggest remedies which are wholly outside of the opinion of the Supreme Court.
Sentence 282: In other words, they are in violation of that opinion—nine suggested remedies out of ten are in violation of the strict interpretation of that opinion.
Sentence 283: I think it is perfectly proper to say further that the implications of this decision could, if carried to their logical conclusion, strip the Federal Government of a great many other powers.
Sentence 284: Federal alcohol control—well, that is gone—we know that is gone.
Sentence 285: This decision did it.
Sentence 286: Federal alcohol control was put in with an objective.
Sentence 287: At the end of Prohibition, when spirits and beer came back, I think everybody, whether on the Prohibition side or the anti-Prohibition side, believed that the Federal Government should do everything in its power to see that pure liquor and good liquor was offered to the American people.
Sentence 288: However, that is not, apparently, a Federal power.
Sentence 289: We have forty-eight Nations from now on under a strict interpretation of this decision—forty-eight Nations, each of which will prescribe a different standard for its own liquor, and will be completely powerless to prevent liquor from the next-door State, or ten States away, from coming into its borders.
Sentence 290: It is a perfectly ridiculous and impossible situation.
Sentence 291: But it is a very good example of what forty-eight-independent-Nation control means.
Sentence 292: Your next implication relates to certain things that we believe are within the Federal power.
Sentence 293: They have not been definitely outlawed by this decision; but the decision raises a very great question about them.
Sentence 294: The Securities Act of 1933, for example, was intended to prevent nationally the issuing of securities to the investing or speculating public under false pretenses.
Sentence 295: The Act required that, through a central Federal organization, securities that were proposed to be issued should have the full truth stated about them.
Sentence 296: That is all there was to it—it was a Truth in Securities Act and it has been working very well.
Sentence 297: However, securities, I suppose, like a crop or like manufactured goods, can be held to be issued in one place and bought by the public in one place, and are therefore wholly intrastate.
Sentence 298: It does not make any difference whether the securities afterward go into forty-eight States or not.
Sentence 299: The issuance and buying in one State, like a crop or a factory product, have no character of interstate commerce about them under this decision.
Sentence 300: In the same way the decision raises a question with respect to the Stock Exchange Act.
Sentence 301: After all, a stock exchange is just a building in one place- in one city.
Sentence 302: There are a good many of them scattered throughout the country.
Sentence 303: They sell various forms of securities, but each one is attached to the ground like wheat or cotton—like coal or anything else.
Sentence 304: The decision raises a question about that.
Sentence 305: Then you come down to the A.A.A. itself.
Sentence 306: I have discussed that.
Sentence 307: The question is raised by this decision as to whether the Federal Government has any constitutional right to do anything about any crop in the United States; and it suggests by implication that forty-eight States should each have their own crop laws.
Sentence 308: You see the implications of the decision.
Sentence 309: That is why I say it is one of the most important decisions ever rendered in this country.
Sentence 310: And the issue is not going to be a partisan issue for a minute.
Sentence 311: The issue is going to be whether we go one way or the other.
Sentence 312: Don't call it right or left; that is just first-year high-school language, just about.
Sentence 313: It is not right or left—it is a question for national decision on a very important problem of Government.
Sentence 314: We are the only Nation in the world that has not solved that problem.
Sentence 315: We thought we were solving it, and now it has been thrown right straight in our faces.
Sentence 316: We have been relegated to the horse-and-buggy definition of interstate commerce.
Sentence 317: Now, as to the way out— I suppose you will want to know something about what I am going to do.
Sentence 318: I am going to tell you very, very little on that.
Sentence 319: There will be this afternoon or tomorrow morning an announcement in regard to pending cases.
Sentence 320: And there will be on Sunday or Monday a further announcement of another step.
Sentence 321: Probably in the next few days there will be a number of announcements which will be along that line.
Sentence 322: This is only for the next four or five days, along the line of clarifying certain existing situations.
Sentence 323: Let the bigger things sink in for the next four or five days.
Sentence 324: So many suggestions have come that I have asked all of the suggestors to send their suggestions to a central source—the Solicitor General and the Attorney General—in order that they might be digested.
Sentence 325: Nobody is writing out anything for me.
Sentence 326: And Steve says it is one o'clock daylight time and we have been talking an awful lot.
Sentence 327: Have you any other questions?
Sentence 328: Q. (Mr. Stephenson)
Sentence 329: Can we use the direct quotation on that horse-and-buggy stage?
Sentence 330: THE PRESIDENT: I think so.
Sentence 331: MR. EARLY: Just the phrase.
Sentence 332: Q.
Sentence 333: You referred to the Dred Scott decision.
Sentence 334: That was followed by the Civil War and by at least two amendments to the Constitution.
Sentence 335: THE PRESIDENT; Well, the reason for that, of course, was the fact that the generation of 1856 did not take action during the next four years.
Sentence 336: Q.
Sentence 337: You made a reference to the necessity of the people deciding within the next five or ten years.
Sentence 338: Is there any way of deciding that question without voting on a constitutional amendment or the passing of one?
Sentence 339: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 340: Oh, yes; I think so.
Sentence 341: But it has got to come in the final analysis.
Sentence 342: Q.
Sentence 343: Any suggestion as to how it might be made, except by a Constitutional Amendment?
Sentence 344: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 345: No; we haven't got to that yet.
Sentence 346: Q. Or a war?
Sentence 347: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT: Just qualifying the issue, that is all.
