Sentence 1: 1935 Christmas Greeting The Nation 7

Once more the most joyous of all days draws near and again it is my great privilege on this blessed Eve of the Nativity to wish the American people everywhere a Merry Christmas.
Sentence 2: This is the third time that I have joined in these Christmas Eve festivities.
Sentence 3: We are gathered together in a typical American setting in the park here in front of the White House.
Sentence 4: Before me and around me is an American assemblage—men and women of all ages, youths and maidens, young children who know nothing about the cares of life—all jubilant with joyous expectation.
Sentence 5: The night is falling and the spirit of other days, too, broods over the scene.
Sentence 6: Andrew Jackson looks down upon us from his prancing steed; and the four corners of the square in which we are gathered around a gaily lit Christmas tree are guarded by the figures of intrepid leaders in the Revolutionary War—Von Steuben, the German; Kosciusko, the Pole; and Lafayette and Rochambeau from the shores of France.
Sentence 7: This is in keeping with the universal spirit of the festival we are celebrating; for we who stand here among our guardians out of the past and from far shores are, I suppose, as diverse in blood and origin as are the uncounted millions throughout the land to whom these words go out tonight.
Sentence 8: But around the Manger of the Babe of Bethlehem "all Nations and kindreds and tongues" find unity.
Sentence 9: For the spirit of Christmas knows no race, no creed, no clime, no limitation of time or space.
Sentence 10: The spirit of Christmas breathes an eternal message of peace and good-will to all men.
Sentence 11: We pause therefore on this Holy Night and, laying down the burdens and the cares of life and casting aside the anxieties of the common day, rejoice that nineteen hundred years ago, heralded by angels, there came into the world One whose message was of peace, who gave to all mankind a new commandment of love.
Sentence 12: In that message of love and of peace we find the true meaning of Christmas.
Sentence 13: And so I greet you with the greeting of the Angels on that first Christmas at Bethlehem which, resounding through centuries, still rings out with its eternal message: "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good-will to men."
