Sentence 1: 1935 Remarks Mayors The White House

I am very glad to see you here.
Sentence 2: Many of you I have known personally for a great many years.
Sentence 3: With some of you, I have worked on many problems in the past.
Sentence 4: I have not prepared any formal remarks for your gathering here.
Sentence 5: I wish, though, that I could have sat with you in your meetings to hear what has been said and to learn more about the problems of government.
Sentence 6: In the past few years we have all learned, I think, a great deal about the problems of government.
Sentence 7: In the broad sense of the word we have tried experiments.
Sentence 8: Some of them have been very successful; and some of them, like all experiments, have not been quite so successful.
Sentence 9: Through this process, we are building up, as Mayor Hoan has said, a new relationship—a perfectly sound relationship—between the different branches of Government, municipal, State and national.
Sentence 10: One of the newspaper men, a few moments ago in the Press Conference, asked the kind of question you are all asked and I am asked every week.
Sentence 11: Members of the press are present, I know, but I do not mind their hearing this.
Sentence 12: The particular question was this:
"Is the Government going to stop giving relief next July?
Sentence 13: "
That is the kind of thing—spreading the word around that everybody who is now on relief will be taken off relief rolls beginning the first of July—we have to combat.
Sentence 14: My answer was that the Federal Government, and I am sure your answer will be the same for the city governments, does not propose to let people starve after the first of July any more than during the past few years.
Sentence 15: We are learning also a greater efficiency.
Sentence 16: Certainly the new work this year, so far as lasting usefulness is concerned, has been infinitely more successful, better planned and better carried out than it was under the old C.W.A. program of 1933.
Sentence 17: Think what a gain it has been in two years.
Sentence 18: Go over the lists of projects, both W.P.A. and Public Works this year, and the percentage of them which will be of lasting benefit to the communities is very, very high.
Sentence 19: That is something I think the average citizen in all of your cities appreciates, in spite of various attacks which have been made on these projects.
Sentence 20: Of course, in the last analysis, you people who run governments of the cities in this country—and in the country districts, the supervisors and county commissioners—are responsible for these projects.
Sentence 21: You people suggest them and, on the whole, your suggestions with respect to these projects have been extraordinarily good.
Sentence 22: I am delighted with the usefulness and permanence of them.
Sentence 23: All of this has come about in the course of less than three years.
Sentence 24: All of us have learned a lot, but we still have much to learn.
Sentence 25: There are various processes of government that can be simplified and ought to be simplified.
Sentence 26: For example, and this is not my fault because Congress put it in the bill, I have to sign all the allotments in person.
Sentence 27: I have signed hundreds, thousands, of allotment papers for various projects.
Sentence 28: They ought never to come to my desk, but we have to go through what is called "red tape," because of the law.
Sentence 29: When applications come in here from the various localities, they have to go through a certain process.
Sentence 30: They have to go, in part, to the Director of the Budget.
Sentence 31: Then they come to me and then they go to the Comptroller General of the United States.
Sentence 32: There has been a lot of talk about projects being held up for a long time by the Comptroller General but, after all, he is limited in the staff he has.
Sentence 33: The way he has done this work has been perfectly fine.
Sentence 34: His people are worn to the bone.
Sentence 35: They have been working day and night.
Sentence 36: Hence the projects have been coming through and I think some people are going to find in a few weeks that the program as a whole is going to be carried out before the end of November, just as planned last spring.
Sentence 37: I would like to say another word on a subject—an important subject—that you and I have in mind.
Sentence 38: That subject is taxation.
Sentence 39: Taxes have grown up like Topsy in this country.
Sentence 40: There have been a great many efforts to simplify taxation—to establish lines of demarcation between the different types of taxation, giving certain types to localities, others to the States, and still others to the Federal Government.
Sentence 41: We are stepping on each other's toes, especially in the past five, ten or fifteen years.
Sentence 42: In fact, virtually since the beginning of the World War the general tax situation in the United States has become more complicated and has called for revision.
Sentence 43: I think the time is coming—not this coming session of Congress because we hope that it will be a very short session—but by the following year, when all of us can get together and sit around a table and work out a better system of taxation, State, municipal and Federal.
Sentence 44: Late this winter we are going to ask you to come down and talk about that subject around the table.
Sentence 45: I suppose this meeting will be dignified by the name of a Tax Conference; but I would rather keep it informal and have it become a continuing study which will bring forth an intelligent report before the close of the year 1936.
Sentence 46: Mayor Hoan has said that this is a non-partisan gathering.
Sentence 47: We have to keep it so and, in the approaching conference, we will have to think of taxation in a non-partisan way.
