Sentence 1: 1936 Remarks Luncheon Dallas Texas

It has been a wonderful day.
Sentence 2: I always regret the fact that I seem to be getting off a train and getting on a train, not having time to stay and visit, as we used to say back home.
Sentence 3: The little, short glimpse that I got today of the Exposition thrilled me, and I wish I could have seen all of the buildings and, incidentally, the Midway as well.
Sentence 4: I spoke this morning about getting to know the people.
Sentence 5: I got that idea from another President of the United States away back about the year 1905.
Sentence 6: A young lady that I was engaged to, also a member of the family, and I were stopping in the White House, and the then President Roosevelt—this was after supper—was visibly perturbed and was stamping up and down in front of the fireplace in the Oval Room upstairs.
Sentence 7: The various members of the family did not know what was the matter with T. R., and finally somebody said, "What is the trouble tonight?
Sentence 8: ....
Sentence 9: Oh," he said,"you know that bill for the creation of a large number of national parks?
Sentence 10: I am not going to be able to get it through this session because there are a lot of people up there that cannot think beyond the borders of their own States."
Sentence 11: And then he clenched his fist and said, "Sometimes I wish I could be President and Congress too."
Sentence 12: Well, I suppose if the truth were told, he is not the only President that has had that idea.
Sentence 13: And somebody said, "What would you do if you could be President and Congress too for just a few minutes?"
Sentence 14: He said, "I would pass a law or a Constitutional Amendment"—and T. R. was always a little bit vague about the difference between laws and constitutional revisions-
Sentence 15: "I would pass something making it obligatory for every member of the House, candidate for the House, candidate for the Senate" (Hatton [Sumners] and Morris
Sentence 16: [Sheppard], you remember this), "to file a certificate before they can be elected, certifying that they had visited in every State of the Union."
Sentence 17: And he said, "That same thing should apply to every high public official in Washington.
Sentence 18: "
Well, the more I study Government, State Government for a good many years and national Government also for a good many years, the sounder I think that general theory is— perhaps not just that kind of practice of it.
Sentence 19: When I think back, even to the days when I was a boy, one of the first things that I can remember was the weeklies of the period, the headlines of the papers, telling about the opening of the Cherokee Strip in Oklahoma.
Sentence 20: I can remember the first time that I crossed the continent.
Sentence 21: And when I see today the enormous changes that have taken place in my lifetime—and I am not an octogenarian yet—I am amazed by the fact that this country, in its expansion, has acquired a greater unity with every passing year.
Sentence 22: When people from the Southwest came East thirty or forty years ago they were regarded as strange people.
Sentence 23: They did not talk the same language.
Sentence 24: Their problems were different.
Sentence 25: And yet today, as you and I well know, you can go into any city, North, East, South or West, and you will find the same kind of people with largely the same kind of problems in their lives and in their businesses.
Sentence 26: For a country of this size, three thousand miles one way and nearly two thousand the other, the fact of our unity is one of the things that amazes foreigners more than any other thing.
Sentence 27: Of course, in Washington, I see a great many people who come there from Europe.
Sentence 28: They are men in public life, newspaper editors,· economists, business men, and so forth, and the first question that I always put to them is, "How long have you been here?"
Sentence 29: And they will say, perhaps, "A week."
Sentence 30: "Where have you been?"
"New York City."
"Where are you going?"
"Back home again.
Sentence 31: "
And then I say, "I suppose you are going to write a book about America when you get back.
Sentence 32: "
Lack of information about the United States on the part of our European friends is one of the most amazing things in the history of the present world.
Sentence 33: I do not suppose it is any exaggeration to say that in the small towns in the United States, especially since the World War and since the papers have fallen into the custom of printing a great deal of foreign news, the average American citizen knows more about world affairs and is more interested in world affairs than the people in the big towns and small towns of any other Nation in the world.
Sentence 34: We have become not only Nation-minded, but we have become world-minded.
Sentence 35: That is one reason why we are trying to work so hard in the cause of peace.
Sentence 36: I am, of course, and a great many other people are, worried about the dangers that beset the world.
Sentence 37: Things are not going so well on the European Continent and on the Asiatic Continent as they are going in the American Hemisphere.
Sentence 38: That has been the reason why I have tried to keep the feet of this country on the ground, hoping that by our example- our example of unity, our example of world unselfishness, our example of trying to build up trade between all the Nations—we might have some effect on the rest of the world that is thinking too much of armaments and war.
Sentence 39: And the response in this country has been magnificent.
Sentence 40: As I have said, we seem to understand very well what the problems of the world are.
Sentence 41: We have, perhaps, a kind of sympathy for their problems.
Sentence 42: We want to help them all that we can; but they have understood very well in these latter years that that help is going to be confined to moral help, and that we are not going to get tangled up with their troubles in the days to come.
Sentence 43: You gentlemen who are running this wonderful Exposition here in Dallas are performing a real service for the whole country in helping the people to know their country.
Sentence 44: I congratulate you on a real accomplishment.
