Sentence 1: 1936 Address Detroit Mich

Governor Murphy, Senator Couzens, my friends:
I am standing at the spot in front of the City Hall to which during the four terrible years, from 1929 to 1933, thousands of unemployed men and women of Detroit came to present problems of human existence to a great Mayor, Frank Murphy.
Sentence 2: I am glad that he is standing beside me today.
Sentence 3: His splendid record, first as Governor General of the Philippines and later as High Commissioner of the United States to the Commonwealth of the Philippines, stands out as one of the most successful administrations in our history.
Sentence 4: The whole country is proud of Frank Murphy and proud of what he has done.
Sentence 5: I knew something of the problems of Detroit in the depression years, not only from Frank Murphy, but also from my brother-in-law who was his City Controller.
Sentence 6: We all knew that during those years the Government of this city pared its operating expenses to the bone, using every penny it could scrape together for the relief of thousands of men and women who were literally on the verge of starvation.
Sentence 7: When money had to be raised, the Mayor and Controller would go to private bankers in New York where they were compelled to pay very high interest rates for further loans.
Sentence 8: By the spring of 1933 the city of Detroit could borrow no more from private sources and the government of the State of Michigan · was unable to render any substantial help.
Sentence 9: I recite these facts because while the problem of human relief in Detroit was one of the most difficult in the Nation, yet there were thousands of other municipalities faced with the same kind of crisis.
Sentence 10: There they were on the fourth of March, 1933!
Sentence 11: And what was called for?
Action—immediate action—by the new Federal Government in Washington; and it is now admitted by all but the most blind partisans, that that was what saved the day.
Sentence 12: It was the only thing left which could save the day.
Sentence 13: Relief and work relief through the use of Federal funds saved American humanity, and as the months went by it saved also the solvency of cities and States in every part of the Nation.
Sentence 14: After we had stopped the immediate crisis, our next step was to restore the purchasing power of the people themselves.
Sentence 15: I need not recite to you the many steps we took.
Sentence 16: You are as familiar with them as I am.
Sentence 17: In great part you are glad today, I am sure, that we took these steps.
Sentence 18: The problem involved building up purchasing power of every kind.
Sentence 19: In restoring it there is one element often overlooked by those who dwell in great industrial cities—the building up of the prices which farmers obtain for their farm products.
Sentence 20: Let me give you a simple example.
Sentence 21: A South compelled to sell its cotton for five cents a pound, a Middle West compelled to sell its corn for ten or fifteen cents a bushel, its hogs for two or three cents a pound, its wheat for thirty cents a bushel, could buy no automobiles made in Detroit.
Sentence 22: But a South with ten—or twelve-cent cotton, a Middle West with seventy-five-cent corn, seven-cent hogs and dollar wheat, can start and has started buying passenger cars, trucks and tractors.
Sentence 23: In all other fields of production prices and values also rose.
Sentence 24: Miners went back to work.
Sentence 25: Eastern factories opened their closed doors.
Sentence 26: The dollars that we spent in relief, in work relief, in C.C.C. camps, in drought relief, in cattle and hog buying and processing, each of those dollars went to work.
Sentence 27: They were spent in the shops of the city and in the stores of the small towns and villages.
Sentence 28: They were spent again by the retailers who bought from wholesalers.
Sentence 29: They were spent again by wholesalers who bought from manufacturers and processors.
Sentence 30: They were spent again in wages to those who worked and in purchases from those who produced the raw materials back in the mines and on the farms.
Sentence 31: And once again they were spent in the stores of the cities and the shops of the small towns and villages.
Sentence 32: You know how many of these dollars have finally come to the City of Detroit in the purchase of automobiles.
Sentence 33: I am reminded of a popular song.
Sentence 34: Literally the music went round and round and round and a lot of it came out right here in Detroit.
Sentence 35: All I need to repeat is the statement known to most of you here, that 1936 promises to be the second largest year of automobile production in our history—three and a half times the value it was in 1932.
Sentence 36: Detroit today is a very different city from what it was three years ago, and while the wheels of industry turn fast and while unemployment is very greatly decreased, yet there are many problems not yet solved.
Sentence 37: I do not accept the conclusion of many Republican leaders that major depressions are inevitable in modern life.
Sentence 38: It is not enough that we have ended the days in 1932 when workers in this city received for their labor as low as five or six dollars for two weeks' work.
Sentence 39: It is not enough that we have saved many homes and put thousands of people to work.
Sentence 40: I believe that it is the duty of Government to bend every effort to prevent another major catastrophe such as that which hit this country as a result of the Republican leadership which ran Government from 1921 to 1933.
Sentence 41: There are a thousand and one things still to be done.
Sentence 42: It has been suggested that the Government's agricultural program is a "hit or miss" affair not worthy of support because, like an automobile, a new model is brought out every year.
Sentence 43: I have been glad to accept that comparison.
Sentence 44: I have told the farmers of this country that farming and farm policies, like automobile making, ought to improve each year, that Model-T farming may have been all right ten years ago but that we do not want Model-T farming or Model—T anything else in the year 1936.
Sentence 45: I have suggested that the automobile industry and every other industry still need great improvements in their relationship to their employees.
Sentence 46: And I will illustrate the point by a story from my own personal experience.
Sentence 47: In the spring of 1934 there came to Washington representatives of the automobile workers, most of them young men without much experience in organized labor.
Sentence 48: One of them, a former Marine who had served through battle after battle in France, told me he was a machinist and that his pay was $1.25 an hour or $10.00 a day.
Sentence 49: I told him I thought that was a pretty good wage scale, and his reply was this: "Yes, Mr. President, it is a good hourly rate and a good daily rate but last year I worked only sixty-eight days."
Sentence 50: In other words, the total income of himself, his wife and his children was $680 for a year.
Sentence 51: On this yearly pay total he had lost the home on which he had paid down hundreds of dollars.
Sentence 52: He and his family were seeking to exist on $680 a year.
Sentence 53: As a result of that meeting and of subsequent meetings with company officials, I stressed the need of spreading the work more evenly through the year and of working toward raising the yearly pay envelope of Detroit and other automobile cities from six or seven hundred a year to over a thousand or twelve hundred a year.
Sentence 54: Certain steps looking toward that end have been taken but they are not sufficient.
Sentence 55: It is my belief that the manufacturers of automobiles and the manufacturers of many other necessary commodities must, by planning, do far more than they have done to date to increase the yearly earnings of those who work for them.
Sentence 56: Your Administration has that kind of objective in mind.
Sentence 57: It is my belief that the people of Detroit, like the people of the rest of the country, are going to ask on November 3d that the present type of Government continue rather than the type of Government which in its heart still believes in the policy of laissez faire and the kind of individualism which up to only three and a half years ago, frankly, put dollars above human rights.
Sentence 58: When the smoke and dust of this political campaign clear away on the night of November 3d, history will record that the outstanding issue of the campaign was this: Shall the social and economic security and betterment of the masses of the American people be maintained and strengthened or not?
Sentence 59: You and I are not afraid of that verdict.
Sentence 60: It is going to be yes.
