Sentence 1: 1936 Radio Address Brotherhood Day

I am happy to speak to you from my own home on the evening of a Sabbath Day which has been observed in so many of your home communities as Brotherhood Day.
Sentence 2: The National Conference of Jews and Christians has set aside a day on which we can meet, not primarily as Protestants or Catholics or Jews but as believing Americans; a day on which we can dedicate ourselves not to the things which divide but to the things which unite us.
Sentence 3: I hope that we have begun to see how many and how important are the things on which we are united.
Sentence 4: Now, of all times, we require that kind of thinking.
Sentence 5: There are honest differences of religious belief among the citizens of your town as there are among the citizens of mine.
Sentence 6: It is a part of the spirit of Brotherhood Day, as it is a part of our American heritage, to respect those differences.
Sentence 7: And it is well for us to remember that this America of ours is the product of no single race or creed or class.
Sentence 8: Men and women—your fathers and mine—came here from the far corners of the earth with beliefs that widely varied.
Sentence 9: And yet each, in his own way, laid his own special gift upon our national altar to enrich our national life.
Sentence 10: From the gift that each has given, all have gained.
Sentence 11: This is no time to make capital out of religious disagreement, however honest.
Sentence 12: It is a time, rather, to make capital out of religious understanding.
Sentence 13: We who have faith cannot afford to fall out among ourselves.
Sentence 14: The very state of the world is a summons to us to stand together.
Sentence 15: For as I see it, the chief religious issue is not between our various beliefs.
Sentence 16: It is between belief and unbelief.
Sentence 17: It is not your specific faith or mine that is being called into question—but all faith.
Sentence 18: Religion in wide areas of the earth is being confronted with irreligion; our faiths are being challenged.
Sentence 19: It is because of that threat that you and I must reach across the lines between our creeds, clasp hands, and make common cause.
Sentence 20: To do that will do credit to the best of our religious tradition.
Sentence 21: It will do credit, also, to the best in our American tradition.
Sentence 22: The spiritual resources of our forbears have brought us a long way toward the goal which was set before the Nation at its founding as a Nation.
Sentence 23: Yet I do not look upon these United States as a finished product.
Sentence 24: We are still in the making.
Sentence 25: The vision of the early days still requires the same qualities of faith in God and man for its fulfillment.
Sentence 26: No greater thing could come to our land today than a revival of the spirit of religion—a revival that would sweep through the homes of the Nation and stir the hearts of men and women of all faiths to a reassertion of their belief in God and their dedication to His will for themselves and for their world.
Sentence 27: I doubt if there is any problem- social, political or economic—that would not melt away before the fire of such a spiritual awakening.
Sentence 28: I know of no better way to kindle such a fire than through the fellowship that an occasion like this makes possible.
Sentence 29: For Brotherhood Day, after all, is an experiment in understanding; a venture in neighborliness.
Sentence 30: I like to think of our country as one home in which the interests of each member are bound up with the happiness of all.
Sentence 31: We ought to know, by now, that the welfare of your family or mine cannot be bought at the sacrifice of our neighbor's family; that our well-being depends, in the long run, upon the wellbeing of our neighbors.
Sentence 32: The good-neighbor idea—as we are trying to practice it in international relationships- needs to be put into practice in our community relationships.
Sentence 33: When it is we may discover that the road to understanding and fellowship is also the road to spiritual awakening.
Sentence 34: At our neighbor's fireside we may find new fuel for the fires of faith at our own hearthsides.
Sentence 35: It would be a fitting thing for an organization such as the National Conference of Jews and Christians to undertake this kind of project in neighborliness.
Sentence 36: I should like to see Associations of Good Neighbors in every town and city and in every rural community of our land.
Sentence 37: Such associations of sincere citizens like-minded as to the underlying principles and ideals would reach across the lines of creed or of economic status.
Sentence 38: It would bring together men and women of all stations to share their problems and their hopes and to discover ways of mutual and neighborly helpfulness.
Sentence 39: Here perhaps is a way to pool our spiritual resources; to find common ground on which all of us of all faiths can stand; and thence to move forward as men and women concerned for the things of the spirit.
