Sentence 1: 1936 Remarks Poughkeepsie Ny

My friends of Poughkeepsie:
I was thinking this afternoon about the first political speech that I made in this city way back in 1910.
Sentence 2: And it was a terrible speech.
Sentence 3: I decided not long after 1910 that I would never make another political speech in the city of Poughkeepsie for the very good reason that everybody knows me.
Sentence 4: And so, in spite of newspaper headlines- and you and I have come to discriminate where they are concerned—in spite of all that, I am not going to make a political speech tonight.
Sentence 5: I am just going to tell you a few things that are on my chest and in my heart at the end of this campaign.
Sentence 6: I have visited a great number of States.
Sentence 7: I have been in the South; I have been in the Middle West; I have been in the Far West; I have been in New England.
Sentence 8: And I have never seen a political campaign in twenty-five years—twenty-six years—where I could feel inside of me that people all over the country were taking as great and as intelligent an interest in the problems of Government.
Sentence 9: One of the good things that came out of the depression was the fact that men and women, rich and poor, in every part of the country, have begun to study the future of America.
Sentence 10: They have been wondering whether we should do this, or that, or the other thing; and back of it all there has lain, as far as I can see, two very definite thoughts in people's minds.
Sentence 11: The first is to retain our American form of Government—the democratic system, spelled with a small "d"—the representative system of Government.
Sentence 12: The other thing that I have carried away with me in this campaign is the thought that people want progress, that they feel that there have been a great many things in the past that we did not do, but that with a great deal of modern knowledge and modern experience the time has come in the United States to accomplish more things for the average citizen.
Sentence 13: People in the past have gone along with the idea that we could do without a great many things such, for instance, as security.
Sentence 14: Well, security means a kind of feeling within our individual selves that we have lacked all through the course of history.
Sentence 15: We have had to take our chance about our old age in days past.
Sentence 16: We have had to take our chances with depressions and boom times.
Sentence 17: We have had to take chances on our jobs.
Sentence 18: We have had to take chances on buying our homes.
Sentence 19: I have believed for a great many years that the time has come in our civilization when a great many of these chances should be eliminated from our lives.
Sentence 20: It has not been so much a question of party politics.
Sentence 21: Most of us would have followed any responsible leader who could have shown to the people of this country that he sought to eliminate at least some of those chances in life, some of the hardships that have come to a lot of people through no fault of their own.
Sentence 22: I know conditions in this city and in this county pretty well.
Sentence 23: I have lived here for fifty-four years.
Sentence 24: And all through my life, ever since I have been of age to take any part in public affairs, which is at least a quarter of a century, I have been noticing a great many hardships that have affected the people of the city and the county.
Sentence 25: As I got older and was able to travel around the country, I found that the same kind of hardships affected people in every other community and county and state.
Sentence 26: And that is why, as some of you who know me can perhaps realize, I have tried for a good many years to work for the elimination of these hardships.
Sentence 27: We cannot reach a millennium or utopia in any four years, or eight years; but at least I have felt that people in responsible positions ought to start the ball roiling, that they ought to make an effort, through legislation and through public opinion, in a perfectly normal, sane, sensible way, to provide security—security for people so that they would not individually worry, security for their families, security for their homes, a greater security for their jobs, and, incidentally, a greater security for the people who employ them.
Sentence 28: That has been an objective of mine for perhaps twenty-five years; and I believe that in these past few years we have taken steps that are going to help the American people toward a greater security within the framework of the American Government.
Sentence 29: That is perhaps a simple expression of a simple philosophy.
Sentence 30: I think most of you agree with the philosophy at least.
Sentence 31: Everybody in public office makes mistakes.
Sentence 32: Every party in power makes mistakes.
Sentence 33: But, in the last analysis, the problem before the voters of the country, not only tomorrow but next year and the year after that, is whether they want to vote for those people who they believe will carry out that expression of a greater physical and mental and spiritual security for the people of this country.
Sentence 34: Tonight at eleven o'clock I am speaking on a nationwide broadcast—and again the newspapers have said it is an appeal for votes.
Sentence 35: It is not.
Sentence 36: It is an appeal for people in this Nation to go to the polls—not an appeal to vote any ticket.
Sentence 37: It is an appeal to exercise their right as American citizens.
Sentence 38: We have come a long way in 150 years.
Sentence 39: About a block from where I stand—up there on the corner of Main Street—there was a little old stone building, and in the year 1788 there was held there the Constitutional Convention of the State of New York.
Sentence 40: My great-great-grandfather was a member of that Convention.
Sentence 41: The question was: Should New York ratify the Federal Constitution?
Sentence 42: It was the year before the Federal Government was set up and George Washington was inaugurated our first President.
Sentence 43: At that time the problem before this Convention in Poughkeepsie was whether the State of New York would ratify the Constitution as it was laid down, without a Bill of Rights.
Sentence 44: Finally, the delegates from this State, up there in the little old stone building, ratified it only on this condition: "In full faith and confidence that a Bill of Rights would be added to the Constitution after the country was started under the new form of Government."
Sentence 45: And, largely because of the insistence of the State of New York in demanding a Bill of Rights, almost immediately the new Government submitted to the States the first Ten Amendments to the United States Constitution.
Sentence 46: And in those days at the time of the first election, after the Constitution was ratified and the Government was set up, it is interesting for us to note that very few men—of course there were no women voting in those days—comparatively very few men voted.
Sentence 47: The reason for that was that in the early days of the United States, the franchise was limited to property holders.
Sentence 48: Most of this Dutchess County of ours in the early days of the Republic was inhabited by tenant farmers.
Sentence 49: A tenant farmer could not vote because he was not a freeholder and only freeholders could vote in this and the other counties of the State of New York and the other young States.
Sentence 50: Today we have a very different proposition.
Sentence 51: The franchise is universal.
Sentence 52: You do not have to be the owner of real estate in order to vote.
Sentence 53: The result is that in the early days of the Nation, with this limited franchise, the results of an election could not be called the rule of the majority, because so few people voted—only property holders.
Sentence 54: Today you have a different situation and by midnight tomorrow night, in all probability, whatever the result is, it will be definitely, clearly, and conclusively the will of the majority.
Sentence 55: In the election of 1932, about forty million voters in the United States voted.
Sentence 56: This year there are about fifty-five million Americans who are eligible to vote tomorrow.
Sentence 57: I want to express the hope that as many as possible of those fifty-five millions will go to the polls, in order that we may have a clear-cut answer to the problems which will be voted on.
Sentence 58: I go back a good many years in this city.
Sentence 59: I can remember when, in the spring, the streets were extremely muddy.
Sentence 60: I can remember when electric lights first came to Poughkeepsie.
Sentence 61: And I can remember the first telephone that was put in our house at Hyde Park, much to the horror of most of the family.
Sentence 62: I can remember that when a telegram came the entire household quaked, because telegrams were seldom sent in those days unless someone died.
Sentence 63: And, taking it by and large, in those forty or fifty years, I think we have made a good deal of progress not only in other parts of the country, but right here in this city and county; and that is one reason why I am terribly proud of good old Dutchess, whether they vote for me or not.
Sentence 64: I am not asking any of you to vote for me, but I am expressing this thought: I hope very much that Dutchess County tomorrow will be found on the same side as the majority of the United States.
Sentence 65: Good night and good luck.
