Sentence 1: 1936 Rear Platform Remarks Dubuque Iowa

My friends, I am glad to come to Dubuque.
Sentence 2: I had planned this visit way back last spring.
Sentence 3: I planned it with a very great citizen of this State and of this city, and I am only sorry he cannot be with us today.
Sentence 4: Louis Murphy was a great and kind man, a close friend of mine.
Sentence 5: Instead of talking politics, I want to read to you a few sentences from a very wonderful tribute which was paid to Louis Murphy at the time of his funeral here.
Sentence 6: I want to read them to you because these words are not political, and yet they are concerned with better government all over the United States.
Sentence 7: In this tribute Father Sheehy said this about the late Senator:
"When Senator Murphy was vested with the responsibilities of his high office, millions were subject to varying degrees of privation and want.
Sentence 8: Drastic measures were necessary, and perhaps some of them, as the late Senator himself admitted, may have been unwise.
Sentence 9: But he could not stand idly by and do nothing.
Sentence 10: "The people of Iowa in electing Senator Murphy to the Senate vested him with the responsibility of championing a new social order in which class and privilege would be abolished.
Sentence 11: Four years of devastating want had all but extinguished the sacred fire of hope in their hearts.
Sentence 12: Senator Murphy was determined that the young people of this generation might be allowed to live normal, self-respecting lives.
Sentence 13: He voted for every relief measure, but he knew that the bread of charity was bitter bread and he was concerned that the problem of unemployment should be solved.
Sentence 14: He had no sympathy for those who would destroy private property.
Sentence 15: He knew that all rights are human rights.
Sentence 16: He did not wish to destroy the savings of the industrious and the more fortunate; yet he rejected both in theory and in practice irresponsible individualism.
Sentence 17: "To him social justice meant primarily that the common good must, particularly in such times as these, take precedence over personal gain.
Sentence 18: He was determined that no one should starve in this land of plenty.
Sentence 19: He fought with all his powers to keep a balance between the prices of farm produce and those of products of city workers.
Sentence 20: "In his struggle for what he thought right, Senator Murphy kept a cool, detached mind, ignoring the swarming tribe of rabble-rousers who today make both our hearts and our ears ache."
Sentence 21: And so, the spirit of Louis Murphy will long hover over the City of Dubuque and the State of Iowa.
Sentence 22: It seems to me, my friends, that there is a great moral lesson in what I have read; there is a great lesson which points the direction toward which our country must go.
Sentence 23: I am out here on what I suppose some people will consider a political trip.
Sentence 24: Nevertheless, I am primarily concerned about the future of the country; we all are.
Sentence 25: I am trying to gain better firsthand information as to the needs of the country in the days to come.
Sentence 26: It will be useful to me, whether I am reelected or not.
Sentence 27: I am merely one comparatively small unit among those concerned in the future of the country.
Sentence 28: Its future lies, today and in the days to come, in the hands of you good men and women, especially young people; and I am not worried so long as its conduct remains in your hands.
Sentence 29: Now, I am going to look at some projects.
