Sentence 1: 1936 Address Forbes Field Pittsburgh
Sentence 2: Pa

Mr. Chairman, Governor Earle, my friends of Pennsylvania:
A baseball park is a good place to talk about box scores.
Sentence 3: Tonight I am going to talk to you about the box score of the Government of the United States.
Sentence 4: I am going to tell you the story of our fight to beat down the depression and win recovery.
Sentence 5: From where I stand it looks as though the game is pretty well "in the bag.
Sentence 6: "
I am convinced that when Government finance or any other kind of finance is honest, and when all the cards are on the table, 4 there is no higher mathematics about it.
Sentence 7: It is just plain, scoreboard arithmetic.
Sentence 8: When the present management of your team took charge in 1933, the national scoreboard looked pretty bad.
Sentence 9: In fact, it looked so much like a shut-out for the team that you voted a change of management in order to give the country a chance to win the game.
Sentence 10: And today we are winning it.
Sentence 11: When the new management came to Washington, we began to make our plans—plans to meet the immediate crisis and plans that would carry the people of the country back to decent prosperity.
Sentence 12: You and I and everybody else saw the millions out of work, saw the business concerns running in the red, saw the banks closing.
Sentence 13: Our national income had declined over 50 percent—and, what was worse, it showed no prospect of recuperating by itself.
Sentence 14: By national income I mean the total of all income of all the 125,000,000 people in this country—the total of all the pay envelopes, all the farm sales, all the profits of all the businesses and all the individuals and corporations in America.
Sentence 15: During the four lean years before this Administration took office, that national income had declined from eighty-one billions a year to thirty-eight billions a year.
Sentence 16: In short, you and I, all of us together, were making forty-three billions—spelled with a "b," not an "m"—forty-three billion dollars less in 1932 than we made in 1929.
Sentence 17: Now, the rise and fall of national income—since they tell the story of how much you and I and everybody else are making-are an index of the rise and fall of national prosperity.
Sentence 18: They are also an index of the prosperity of your Government.
Sentence 19: The money to run the Government comes from taxes; and the tax revenue in turn depends for its size on the size of the national income.
Sentence 20: When the incomes and the values and transactions of the country are on the down-grade, then tax receipts go on the down-grade too.
Sentence 21: If the national income continues to decline, then the Government cannot run without going into the red.
Sentence 22: The only way to keep the Government out of the red is to keep the people out of the red.
Sentence 23: And so we had to balance the budget of the American people be-fore we could balance the budget of the national Government.
Sentence 24: That makes common sense, doesn't it?
Sentence 25: The box score when the Democratic Administration came to bat in 1933 showed a net deficit in our national accounts of about $3,000,000,000, accumulated in the three previous years under my predecessor.
Sentence 26: National income was in a downward spiral.
Sentence 27: Federal Government revenues were in a downward spiral.
Sentence 28: To pile on vast new taxes would get us nowhere because values were going down-and that makes sense too.
Sentence 29: On top of having to meet the ordinary expenses of Government, I recognized the obligation of the Federal Government to feed and take care of the growing army of homeless and destitute unemployed.
Sentence 30: Something had to be done.
Sentence 31: A national choice had to be made.
Sentence 32: We could do one of two things.
Sentence 33: Some people who sat across my desk in those days urged me to let Nature take its course and to continue a policy of doing nothing.
Sentence 34: I rejected that advice because Nature was in an angry mood.
Sentence 35: To have accepted that advice would have meant the continued wiping out of people of small means—the continued loss of their homes and farms and small businesses into the hands of people who still had enough capital left to pick up those homes and farms and businesses at bankruptcy prices.
Sentence 36: It would have meant, in a very short time, the loss of all the resources of a multitude of individuals and families and small corporations.
Sentence 37: You would have seen, throughout the Nation, a concentration of property ownership in the hands of one or two percent of the population, a concentration unequaled in any great Nation since the days of the later Roman Empire.
Sentence 38: And so the program of this Administration set out to protect the small business, the small corporation, the small shop, and the small individual from the wave of deflation that threatened them.
Sentence 39: We realized then, as we do now, that the vast army of small business men and factory owners and shop owners—together with our farmers and workers—form the backbone of the industrial life of America.
Sentence 40: In our long-range plan we recognized that the prosperity of America depended upon, and would continue to depend upon, the prosperity of them all.
Sentence 41: I rejected the advice that was given to me to do nothing for an additional reason.
Sentence 42: I had promised, and my Administration was determined, to keep the people of the United States from starvation.
Sentence 43: I refused to leave human needs solely in the hands of local communities—local communities which themselves were almost bankrupt.
Sentence 44: To have accepted that advice would have been to offer breadlines again to the American people, knowing this time, however, that in many places the lines would last far longer than the bread.
Sentence 45: In those dark days, between us and a balanced budget stood millions of needy Americans, denied the promise of a decent American life.
Sentence 46: To balance our budget in 1933 or 1934 or 1935 would have been a crime against the American people.
Sentence 47: To do so we should either have had to make a capital levy that would have been confiscatory, or we should have had to set our face against human suffering with callous indifference.
Sentence 48: When Americans suffered, we refused to pass by on the other side.
Sentence 49: Humanity came first.
Sentence 50: No one lightly lays a burden on the income of a Nation.
Sentence 51: But this vicious tightening circle of our declining national income simply had to be broken.
Sentence 52: The bankers and the industrialists of the Nation cried aloud that private business was powerless to break it.
Sentence 53: They turned, as they had a right to turn, to the Government.
Sentence 54: We accepted the final responsibility of Government, after all else had failed, to spend money when no one else had money left to spend.
Sentence 55: I adopted, therefore, the other alternative.
Sentence 56: I cast aside a do nothing or a wait-and-see policy.
Sentence 57: As a first step in our program we had to stop the quick spiral of deflation and decline in the national income.
Sentence 58: Having stopped them, we went on to restore purchasing power, to raise values, to put people back to work, and to start the national income going up again.
Sentence 59: In 1933 we reversed the policy of the previous Administration.
Sentence 60: For the first time since the depression you had a Congress and an Administration in Washington which had the courage to provide the necessary resources which private interests no longer had or no longer dared to risk.
Sentence 61: This cost money.
Sentence 62: We knew, and you knew, in March, 1933, that it would cost money.
Sentence 63: We knew, and you knew, that it would cost money for several years to come.
Sentence 64: The people understood that in 1933.
Sentence 65: They understood it in 1934, when they gave the Administration a full endorsement of its policy.
Sentence 66: They knew in 1935, and they know in 1936, that the plan is working.
Sentence 67: All right, my friends, let us look at the cost.
Sentence 68: Since we could not get the money by taxes we borrowed it, and increased the public debt.
Sentence 69: President Hoover's Administration increased the national debt in the net amount of over three billion dollars in three depression years, and there was little to show for it.
Sentence 70: My Administration has increased the national debt in the net amount of about eight billion dollars and there is much to show for it.
Sentence 71: Put that figure of eight billions out here on the scoreboard, and let me tell you where the dollars went.
Sentence 72: Over a billion and a half went for payment of the World War Veterans' Bonus this year instead of in 1945.
Sentence 73: That payment is now out of the way, and is no longer a future obligation of the Government.
Sentence 74: As for the other six and a half billions of the deficit we did not just spend money; we spent it for something.
Sentence 75: America got something for what we spent—conservation of human resources through C.C.C. camps and through work relief; conservation of natural resources of water, soil and forest; billions for security and a better life.
Sentence 76: While many who criticize today were selling America short, we were investing in the future of America.
Sentence 77: Contrast those expenditures and what we got for them with certain other expenditures of the American people in the years between 1920 and 1930.
Sentence 78: During that period not merely eight billions but many more billions came out of American pockets and were sent abroad—to foreign countries where the money was used for increasing foreign armaments, for building foreign factories to compete with us, for building foreign dwellings, swimming pools, and slaughter houses, for giving employment to the foreign unemployed—foreign boondoggling, if you will.
Sentence 79: Those dollars, billions of them, were just as good American money—just as hard-earned—just as much the reward of our thrift—as the dollars we have spent during these three years at home giving work to the unemployed.
Sentence 80: Most of those dollars sent abroad are gone for good.
Sentence 81: Those billions, lost to us under previous Administrations, do not, by the way, include the other billions loaned by the United States to foreign Governments during and immediately after the War.
Sentence 82: I ask you the simple question: Has it not been a sounder investment for us during these past three years to spend eight billion dollars for American industry, American farms, American homes and the care of American citizens?
Sentence 83: I have used the figure of eight billion dollars as representing the net increase in our national debt.
Sentence 84: Immediately people will rush into print or run to the microphone to tell you that my arithmetic is all wrong.
Sentence 85: They will tell you that the increase in the national debt is thirteen billions instead of eight.
Sentence 86: That is technically and morally just as correct as if someone were to try to scare you about the condition of your bank by telling you all about its liabilities and not telling you about its assets.
Sentence 87: That is technically and morally just as correct as telling you good people here in Pennsylvania that none of your bank deposits or insurance policies is sound.
Sentence 88: When you are told that the United States Treasury has thirteen billions more of liabilities than it had in 1933, you should also be told that it has six billion dollars of increased assets to set off against these liabilities.
Sentence 89: In three years our net national debt has increased eight billions of dollars.
Sentence 90: But in two years of the recent war it increased as much as twenty-five billion dollars.
Sentence 91: National defense and the future of America were involved in 1917.
Sentence 92: National defense and the future of America were also involved in 1933.
Sentence 93: Don't you believe that the saving of America has been cheap at that price?
Sentence 94: It was more than defense—it was more than rescue.
Sentence 95: It was an investment in the future of America.
Sentence 96: And, incidentally, tonight is an anniversary in the affairs of our Government which I wish to celebrate with you and the American people.
Sentence 97: It is October first, and it marks the end of a whole year in which there has been not a single national bank failure in all the United States.
Sentence 98: It has been fifty-five years since that kind of record has been established.
Sentence 99: You and I can take this occasion to rejoice in that record.
Sentence 100: It is proof that the program has worked.
Sentence 101: Compare the scoreboard which you have in Pittsburgh now with the scoreboard which you had when I stood here at second base in this field four years ago.
Sentence 102: At that time, as I drove through these great valleys, I could see mile after mile of this greatest mill and factory area in the world, a dead panorama of silent black structures and smokeless stacks.
Sentence 103: I saw idleness and hunger instead of the whirl of machinery.
Sentence 104: Today as I came north from West Virginia, I saw mines operating, I found bustle and life, the hiss of steam, the ring of steel on steel—the roaring song of industry.
Sentence 105: And now a word as to this foolish fear about the crushing load the debt will impose upon your children and mine.
Sentence 106: This debt is not going to be paid by oppressive taxation on future generations.
Sentence 107: It is not going to be paid by taking away the hard-won savings of the present generation.
Sentence 108: It is going to be paid out of an increased national income and increased individual incomes produced by increasing national prosperity.
Sentence 109: The deficit of the national Government has been steadily declining for three years running, although technically this year it did not decline, because we paid the Bonus this year instead of 1945.
Sentence 110: Without the Bonus the deficit would have declined this year also.
Sentence 111: The truth is that we are doing better than we anticipated in 1933.
Sentence 112: The national income has gone up faster than we dared then to hope.
Sentence 113: Deficits have been less than we expected.
Sentence 114: Treasury receipts are increasing.
Sentence 115: The national debt today in relation to the national income is much less than it was in 1933, when this Administration took office.
Sentence 116: The national income was thirty-eight billions in 1932.
Sentence 117: In 1935 it was fifty-three billions and this year it will be well over sixty billions.
Sentence 118: If it keeps on rising at the present rate, as I am confident that it will, the receipts of the Government, without imposing any additional taxes, will, within a year or two, be sufficient to care for all ordinary and relief expenses of the Government—in other words, to balance the budget.
Sentence 119: The Government of this great Nation, solvent, sound in credit, is coming through a crisis as grave as war without having sacrificed American democracy or the ideals of American life.
