Sentence 1: 1936 Address Wichita Kansas

Senator McGill, my friends of Kansas:
Sentence 2: I am especially happy to come here at the time of this, your celebration of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the admission of Kansas to the Union.
Sentence 3: In my boyhood days, one of my earliest recollections was going about fifteen miles back into Dutchess County, trying to shoot a woodcock.
Sentence 4: The place I went through was known locally as Kansas, and I often wondered why it was called Kansas.
Sentence 5: Long years later, in trying to find out the origin of the name, I ran across an old file of a local newspaper and found that in 1857 an enterprising railroad man had come into Dutchess County and had offered a free trip to Kansas to anybody who wanted to go there.
Sentence 6: That was one of the ways in which Kansas was settled, as you all know.
Sentence 7: Back there in Dutchess we feel that we have a special link with this State because a great many families, I think three or four dozen, came out here in those early days.
Sentence 8: I come back here after four years to find that things have changed a good deal.
Sentence 9: I have noticed in traveling on the railroad that there is a different type even of tourists.
Sentence 10: Four years ago there were a lot of tourists who were riding in box cars and on top of trains.
Sentence 11: Today they are riding in their own automobiles and in Pullmans.
Sentence 12: You know, on a day like this it seems a pity to have to mention an election.
Sentence 13: But we people have a habit once every four years of having a grand fight, and getting over it the day after election.
Sentence 14: November 3d is exactly three weeks from today and I expect to survive those three weeks.
Sentence 15: If later on I shall have to write another book I am going to have a chapter in it about bedtime stories—political bedtime stories.
Sentence 16: It will be a very amusing chapter.
Sentence 17: I am going to fill it with whispering ghosts and stalking bogey-men, and I am going to end the chapter by telling how the American men and women on the third of November, 1936, refused to be frightened by fairy tales.
Sentence 18: You people do not look to me the least bit frightened.
Sentence 19: And yet some people have been trying to tell you all kinds of things about what this Administration is seeking to do.
Sentence 20: They have tried, I am sorry to say, to spread the gospel of fear not only in the factories, which is an old outworn trick, but this year they are even trying to bring fear into the homes and firesides of America.
Sentence 21: But I know that the people of this country have not such short memories.
Sentence 22: They remember only too well the real fear-the justified fear—felt all over the Nation in 1932, to be frightened by this silly false fear which is now being preached.
Sentence 23: The Republican leaders who are trying to do it, incidentally, happen to be the very ones whose blindness to facts and refusal to act caused the real fear and the real danger of national disaster in 1932.
Sentence 24: What this Administration has done since 1933 to clear up the debris which had been left over by twelve years of neglect need not be repeated; you all know it.
Sentence 25: You know what the "devil-take-the-hindmost" policy of the nineteen-twenties brought down upon our heads.
Sentence 26: You know that the vast speculative gains of a few were made without any regard to the deep injuries which they were causing to the great masses of our people.
Sentence 27: In the spring of 1933, these same speculators pleaded with me for help—help of any kind—just so long as it would save them from bankruptcy.
Sentence 28: Most people thought that they had learned their lesson.
Sentence 29: We hoped that they would join with our average citizens in working for some kind of security against a recurrence of those panic years.
Sentence 30: Yet here they are- three years later—giving vague lip service to that word "security" and, at the same time, seeking to block, to thwart, and to annul every measure that we have taken to restrain the kind of individualism which hurts the community itself, individualism run amuck.
Sentence 31: I use this word "security" not in the narrower sense of old-age pensions and of unemployment insurance, fine as these objectives are.
Sentence 32: I use it in the broader sense—confidence on the part of men and women willing to carry on normal work, and willing to think of their neighbors as well as themselves, confidence that they will not have to worry about losing their homes, about not having enough to eat, about becoming objects of charity.
Sentence 33: Add to that one more objective: that all Americans may have full opportunity for education, for reasonable leisure and recreation, for the right to carry on representative Government and for freedom to worship God in their own way.
Sentence 34: That philosophy has been the philosophy and the practical objective of your national Administration at Washington.
Sentence 35: I do not seek to discuss with you the pros and cons of your local government or of your State Government in Kansas.
Sentence 36: You know more about that than I do.
Sentence 37: Let me say only, and in very simple terms, that I do not believe that Kansas would have pulled through the difficult problems of the past four years as splendidly as it has, had it not been for Federal cooperation and Federal assistance in many fields of your endeavor.
Sentence 38: If you think we were wrong to give this assistance, then, to be logical, you must ask that in the days to come every State in the Union shall set itself up as an individual entity for the solution of all of the problems of all of its inhabitants, save possibly the maintenance of the Army, the Navy and the handling of our foreign affairs.
Sentence 39: Our broader interpretation of security and of the methods of procuring it is well illustrated by what you have seen us do.
Sentence 40: Our endeavors have fallen into three broad classifications.
Sentence 41: First, immediate and direct assistance—including work for the unemployed; help for drought areas; buying of drought stricken cattle; building of ponds and irrigation projects; seed loans; assistance to the youth of the Nation, and dozens of other instances of that kind.
Sentence 42: Second, protection against recognized abuses of many kinds-including the battle of the Federal Government against kidnapping, blackmail, bank robberies and other menaces to life and liberty; safeguarding innocent investors against fake securities; the regulation of stock exchanges; regulation of overreaching practices of some utility companies and the establishment of power yard-sticks to force reasonable electric rates; elimination of unsafe banking practices.
Sentence 43: Third, the reduction of interest rates; the saving of farms and homes from mortgage foreclosures; the insurance of bank deposits; the loans that have been made to keep railroads going; the assistance given to States, counties and cities, enabling them to build much-needed, useful public works; old-age pensions; unemployment insurance; assistance to rural schools; the C.C.C. camps; farm-to-market roads.
Sentence 44: These, and many more like them, give you a broad picture of the more permanent and long-range measures, many of which will improve not only your lives, but those of your children as well.
Sentence 45: There was at one time a school of thought in this country that would have us believe that those vast numbers of average citizens who do not get to the top of the economic ladder do not deserve the security which Government alone can give them.
Sentence 46: And in the past, unfortunately, that philosophy has had too large a hand in making our national economic policies.
Sentence 47: That school of thought left Washington on March 4, 1933.
Sentence 48: The farmers of the Nation furnish a very good example of what Government can do, not only in direct help, but also in providing security for the future.
Sentence 49: From a state of collapse in 1932, agriculture has not only been brought back to life, but has also received the encouragement of Government which enables it to face the future with confidence.
Sentence 50: Is there among the many farmers in this audience, a single one who would want to go back to the uncooperative formula—the rugged individualism, the economic freedom of 1932?
Sentence 51: Don't you and your wife and your children look forward to a safer, better future today than you did three and a half short years ago?
Sentence 52: I have used farming as an illustration of greater security because Kansas is a great farming State.
Sentence 53: You know, however, that the mining areas and the livestock areas and the industrial areas of the country are likewise receiving their share of a greater security.
Sentence 54: Every part of the Nation is sharing it together.
Sentence 55: Last April in the City of New York I dared to talk farming to a New York City audience.
Sentence 56: I told them that one of the best things that had come out of these three years was the realization by city dwellers that they could not be prosperous until the farmer was also prosperous.
Sentence 57: In the same way I have dared to talk to people in great agricultural States about the needs of the industrial workers in the big cities, and how closely their welfare is tied up with the lot of the farmer.
Sentence 58: People who are spreading the gospel of fear talk about setting one class against another.
Sentence 59: They have intimated that farmers belong to one class, industrial workers to another, and business to still another.
Sentence 60: I deny it.
Sentence 61: They all belong to the same class, for the very simple reason that none of these occupations can survive without the survival of the others.
Sentence 62: The people who talk about these class distinctions are the very ones who are encouraging class antagonism.
Sentence 63: For they tell one story in the East and another story in the West; they tell one story in the city and another story on the farm.
Sentence 64: That is not my way, and never will be my way.
Sentence 65: Taking it by and large, we are coming through a great national crisis with flying colors.
Sentence 66: We have not lost our self-respect.
Sentence 67: We have not changed our form of government.
Sentence 68: We have a net national debt which, though greater in dollars, is actually less in proportion to the income of the Nation and in proportion to the wealth of the Nation than the national debt was on March 4, 1933.
Sentence 69: From the point of view of national income and national wealth, we are better able to bear our debt now than we were then.
Sentence 70: And, within a year or two, with income increasing and expenditures declining, we shall be able to balance the budget, and start paying down on the debt.
Sentence 71: There is one final form of security on which I have not yet touched.
Sentence 72: In addition to security at home and in the home, we have sought for security from war with other Nations.
Sentence 73: We have not been content merely to talk about peace.
Sentence 74: We have done something about it.
Sentence 75: We are trying to break down the economic barriers, to soften the economic rivalries, to end the economic strife between Nations; for these have been the causes and forerunners of war.
Sentence 76: We have taken the lead among the Nations of the world in restoring economic peace which is so essential to military peace.
Sentence 77: In the whole of the Western Hemisphere, all the way from the North Pole to the South Pole, we have preached, and we have gained recognition of, the doctrine of the good neighbor.
Sentence 78: We have extended the right hand of fellowship.
Sentence 79: Many Nations of the earth have taken that outstretched hand.
Sentence 80: We propose, of course, no interference with the affairs of other Nations.
Sentence 81: We seek only by force of our own example to spread the gospel of peace throughout the world.
Sentence 82: We are gaining peace and security at home.
Sentence 83: I am confident that I have the support of the American people in seeking peace and security abroad.
