Sentence 1: 1936 Rear Platform Remarks Greeley Colo

Good morning.
Sentence 2: I have just got through breakfast; and I am glad to come back here to be introduced by Fred Cummings, who is an old friend of mine.
Sentence 3: The last time I stood here, I think, was with Mrs. Roosevelt in 1920 when I was running for Vice President.
Sentence 4: A lot of things have happened since that time.
Sentence 5: For example, I know of a lot of things that have happened to the beet-sugar industry.
Sentence 6: I want to tell you a story about that.
Sentence 7: It relates to beets, and it relates to a lot of other products.
Sentence 8: Way back in the campaign of 1932, a man brought on the train a chart showing the fluctuations of prices of various raw materials and agricultural commodities—cattle, sheep, corn, cotton, wheat, sugar, minerals such as gold, silver and copper, and so forth and so on.
Sentence 9: I found from that chart that some of these commodities had fluctuated an average of 400 percent up or down between 1920 and 1932.
Sentence 10: Well, I do not believe there is any permanent prosperity in a commodity that fluctuates 400 percent up or down, any more than there is in a mortgage or a home that fluctuates 400 percent up or down.
Sentence 11: Therefore, back in 1932, we laid plans to try to iron out these up-and-down fluctuations and get commodities to more stable year-in and year-out price levels.
Sentence 12: I think we have accomplished a good deal along that line.
Sentence 13: Sugar beets form one pretty good example.
Sentence 14: The average grower of sugar beets has recognized the fact that he is better off, if, when he puts his seed in the ground, he knows approximately what the price is going to be when he harvests his crop, than he would be in a highly fluctuating, speculative market.
Sentence 15: Whenever there are great fluctuations in prices, the .only seller who really ever makes money is the speculator.
Sentence 16: That is why we have tried to stabilize the prices of various farm commodities and other commodities as well.
Sentence 17: I say this merely to give you one little slant on the general policy that the Government has been following during the last four years.
Sentence 18: I think that in the long run it is a sound policy for the country as a whole, whether it applies to the raw products of the soil or to the raw products of the mines.
Sentence 19: If you are interested in following it further, go and get a chart of the prices of any of these raw materials from the nearest library and see what I mean.
Sentence 20: If you will follow the line showing the prices as they have advanced or declined, you will see a zigzag that will horrify you even if you check it back for only fifteen years.
Sentence 21: I am going on from here down to Denver, and then farther down to Pueblo.
Sentence 22: It is the first time that I have been down in the middle part of the State since I took office in 1933.
Sentence 23: I have, however, been what they call "a traveling President."
Sentence 24: I have been trying to keep in personal touch with the Nation.
Sentence 25: I have been pretty well all around Colorado and I have touched a corner of Colorado several times.
Sentence 26: I am glad now to be able to get into the middle of the State and see at first hand some of the conditions.
Sentence 27: It is going to help me during the next four years.
