Sentence 1: 1936 Rear Platform Remarks Oelwein Iowa

My friends, I am very glad to come through here today.
Sentence 2: I have never been in this part of the State before, and it was about time for me to come here.
Sentence 3: You know, I find it terribly hard after four years to start in making political speeches again.
Sentence 4: One reason is that for the last four years I have been so engrossed in trying to bring things back, and that goes far beyond the mere lines of party politics.
Sentence 5: There is one mighty nice thing about these trips, and that is that, so far as I can tell in going along the railroad, the expressions on the faces of the railroad men make me know that they are now all right.
Sentence 6: After all, we are all tied in together economically, and that is the lesson I am preaching.
Sentence 7: We shall not have successful railroads, we shall not have more employment on the railroads, unless the farmers are prosperous; and the farmers cannot be prosperous unless the city dwellers have enough money and enough work to buy what the farmers produce.
Sentence 8: And so it goes all the way through the whole scale of human endeavor.
Sentence 9: The small merchants cannot sell their goods either to the farm population or to the city population unless there is buying power.
Sentence 10: What we have been trying to do in the past four years, from the point of view of economics, has had a comparatively simple objective—getting people work and producing buying power for them.
Sentence 11: As I go through the country this year, in comparison with 1932, I see an enormous difference—an enormous difference in the prosperity of the country as a whole and in every part of it that I have visited.
Sentence 12: I am not making one kind of speech in the East and another kind of speech in the West.
Sentence 13: I am not making one kind of speech to farm people and another kind of speech to industrial workers.
Sentence 14: In the last four years we have gained a great knowledge of the interdependence of every part of the Nation with every other part.
Sentence 15: If the men and women who work in clothing factories in the City of New York are out of a job, they do not buy so much pork.
Sentence 16: That kind of example goes for every known product of the land.
Sentence 17: I am especially glad that the railroads are getting back on their feet again.
Sentence 18: Of course the Government has had some share in getting them back on their feet again.
Sentence 19: We loaned them a lot of money, and they are repaying it.
Sentence 20: It was a good investment.
Sentence 21: In just the same way, the Government has helped to get the banks back on their feet; we loaned them some money, and it was a good investment.
Sentence 22: And so my friends-
Sentence 23: this is not a prepared speech—I just want to talk to you as one neighbor to another.
Sentence 24: I don't pretend to be a farmer; I happen to be by profession a lawyer.
Sentence 25: But I have farmed the best part of my life, up on the Hudson River and down in the State of Georgia, so I do know about some of the problems of agriculture in the United States.
Sentence 26: Every day that I go through this country I try to learn more about it; and that is going to stand me in good stead whether or not I go back to the White House for the next four years.
Sentence 27: And, incidentally, I get a tremendous kick out of it.
Sentence 28: It is good to see you all.
