Sentence 1: 1936 Address Worcester Mass

Senator Walsh, Governor Curley, Mayor Sullivan, and my friends of New England:
I am glad to be in New England—New England from which have come most of my forebears.
Sentence 2: In recent weeks I have traveled through a great part of the United States.
Sentence 3: I have spoken about farming and mining and livestock, about business big and little, about the wage earner, about the national debt, about drought and flood, about work for the needy unemployed and about security— security for our people and for their homes.
Sentence 4: I have found a Nation more greatly prosperous, more definitely on the highway to complete recovery than at any time in the past seven years.
Sentence 5: I have seen the record of what we have done in the faces of the people I have met.
Sentence 6: We have banished Old Man Gloom.
Sentence 7: It has taken only one day of driving through Rhode Island and Massachusetts to prove to me that New England is in step and on the march with the rest of the Nation.
Sentence 8: I have seen things today even more welcome to me than your lovely autumn foliage.
Sentence 9: I have seen the smoke from factories which three and a half years ago were smokeless.
Sentence 10: I have heard the sound of mills which three and a half years ago were silent.
Sentence 11: I have seen men at work who three and a half years ago were jobless.
Sentence 12: I have seen women and children who, after long years of fear, have begun to live and hope again.
Sentence 13: Three and a half years ago we declared war on the depression.
Sentence 14: You and I know today that that war is being won.
Sentence 15: But now comes that familiar figure—the well-upholstered hindsight critic.
Sentence 16: He tells us that our strategy was wrong, that the cost was too great, that something else won the war.
Sentence 17: That is an argument as old as the remorse of those who had their chance and muffed it.
Sentence 18: It is as recent as the claims of those who say that they could have done better.
Sentence 19: You may remember the First Battle of the Marne in the World War.
Sentence 20: Almost everybody thought that it was Marshal Joffre who had won it.
Sentence 21: But some refused to agree.
Sentence 22: One day, a newspaperman appealed to Marshal Joffre: "Will you tell me who did win the Battle of the Marne?"
Sentence 23: "I can't answer that," said the Marshal.
Sentence 24: "But I can tell you that if the Battle of the Marne had been lost the blame would have been on me."
Our war, too—this war we are now finishing- had to be won.
Sentence 25: No price, we were told then, was too high to pay to win it.
Sentence 26: We did count the cost.
Sentence 27: But in the barrage that we laid down against the depression we could not stop firing to haggle about the price of every shell.
Sentence 28: We kept on firing and fighting.
Sentence 29: The important thing is that the war is being won.
Sentence 30: Without that victory we cannot have the kind of America we know and love and want our children to live in.
Sentence 31: New England, as one of the senior partners in the company of the States, has always stood for two of the fundamentals of American liberty: the Town Meeting, with its essential insistence on local control over local affairs, and the doctrine for which Sam Adams and his friends were willing to fight— the doctrine of democracy in taxation.
Sentence 32: While I do not happen to be a cousin of the distinguished Adams family, I consider myself, politically, a lineal descendant of old Sam.
Sentence 33: In 1776 the fight was for democracy in taxation.
Sentence 34: In 1936 that is still the fight.
Sentence 35: Mr. Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes once said: "Taxes are the price we pay for civilized society."
Sentence 36: One sure way to determine the social conscience of a Government is to examine the way taxes are collected and how they are spent.
Sentence 37: And one sure way to determine the social conscience of an individual is to get his tax-reaction.
Sentence 38: Taxes, after all, are the dues that we pay for the privileges of membership in an organized society.
Sentence 39: As society becomes more civilized, Government—national, State and local government—is called on to assume more obligations to its citizens.
Sentence 40: The privileges of membership in a civilized society have vastly increased in modern times.
Sentence 41: But I am afraid we have many who still do not recognize their advantages and want to avoid paying their dues.
Sentence 42: It is only in the past two generations that most local communities have paved and lighted their streets, put in town sewers, provided town water supplies, organized fire departments, established high schools and public libraries, created parks and playgrounds—undertaken, in short, all kinds of necessary new activities which, perforce, had to be paid for out of local taxes.
Sentence 43: And let me at this point note that in this most amazing of campaigns, I have found sections of the Nation where Republican leaders were actually whispering the word to the owners of homes and farms that the present Federal Administration proposed to make a cash levy on local real estate to pay off the national debt.
Sentence 44: They know that the Federal Government does not tax real estate, that it cannot tax real estate.
Sentence 45: If they do not know that, I suggest they read the Constitution of the United States to find out.
Sentence 46: New obligations to their citizens have also been assumed by the several States and by the Federal Government, obligations unknown a century and a half ago, but made necessary by new inventions and by a constantly growing social conscience.
Sentence 47: The easiest way to summarize the reason for this extension of Government functions, local, State and national, is to use the words of Abraham Lincoln: "The legitimate object of Government is to do for the people what needs to be done but which they cannot by individual effort do at all, or do so well, for themselves.
Sentence 48: "
Taxes are the price we all pay collectively to get those things done.
Sentence 49: To divide fairly among the people the obligation to pay for these benefits has been a major part of our struggle to maintain democracy in America.
Sentence 50: Ever since 1776 that struggle has been between two forces.
Sentence 51: On the one hand, there has been the vast majority of our citizens who believed that the benefits of democracy should be extended and who were willing to pay their fair share to extend them.
Sentence 52: On the other hand, there has been a small, but powerful group which has fought the extension of those benefits, because it did not want to pay a fair share of their cost.
Sentence 53: That was the line-up in 1776.
Sentence 54: That is the line-up in this campaign.
Sentence 55: And I am confident that once more—in 1936—democracy in taxation will win.
Sentence 56: Here is my principle: Taxes shall be levied according to ability to pay.
Sentence 57: That is the only American principle.
Sentence 58: Before this great war against the depression we fought the World War; and it cost us twenty-five billion dollars in three years to win it.
Sentence 59: We borrowed to fight that war.
Sentence 60: Then, as now, a Democratic Administration provided sufficient taxes to pay off the entire war debt within ten or fifteen years.
Sentence 61: Those taxes had been levied according to ability to pay.
Sentence 62: But the succeeding Republican Administration did not believe in that principle.
Sentence 63: There was a reason.
Sentence 64: They had political debts to those who sat at their elbows.
Sentence 65: To pay those political debts, they reduced the taxes of their friends in the higher brackets and left the national debt to be paid by later generations.
Sentence 66: Because they evaded their obligation, because they regarded the political debt as more important than the national debt, the depression in 1929 started with a sixteen-billion-dollar handicap on us and our children.
Sentence 67: Now let's keep this little drama straight.
Sentence 68: The actors are the same.
Sentence 69: But the act is different.
Sentence 70: Today their role calls for stage tears about the next generation.
Sentence 71: But in the days after the World War they played a different part.
Sentence 72: The moral of the play is clear.
Sentence 73: They got out from under then, they would get out from under now—if their friends could get back into power and they could get back to the driver's seat.
Sentence 74: But neither you nor I think that they are going to get back.
Sentence 75: As in the World War, we have again created a tax structure to yield revenues adequate to pay the cost of this war against depression in this generation and not in the next.
Sentence 76: New or increased taxes are not needed to enable us to balance the Federal Budget and to begin very soon a rapid reduction in the national debt.
Sentence 77: Recovery is with us.
Sentence 78: Federal revenues are increasing; emergency expenditures are decreasing.
Sentence 79: A balanced budget is on the way.
Sentence 80: Does that sound like bankruptcy to you?
Sentence 81: Why this increase in Government revenues?
Sentence 82: Because the taxpayer earns more money and spends more money.
Sentence 83: Though he pays more money in taxes, he has more money left for himself and for his family.
Sentence 84: For the average American we have reduced the individual income tax.
Sentence 85: Any family head who earns an income of less than $26,000 a year pays a smaller income tax in 1936 than he paid for 1932.
Sentence 86: That means that less than one percent of the heads of American families pay more than they did; and more than 99 percent pay less than they did, for more than 99 percent earn less than $26,000 per year.
Sentence 87: If you want the answer to this talk about high taxes under this Administration—there it is.
Sentence 88: Taxes are higher for those who can afford to pay high taxes.
Sentence 89: They are lower for those who can afford to pay less.
Sentence 90: That is getting back again to the American principle—taxation according to ability to pay.
Sentence 91: You would think, to hear some people talk, that those good people who live at the top of our economic pyramid are being taxed into rags and tatters.
Sentence 92: What is the fact?
Sentence 93: The fact is that they are much farther away from the poorhouse than they were in 1932.
Sentence 94: You and I know that as a matter of personal observation.
Sentence 95: A number of my friends who belong in these very high upper brackets have suggested to me, more in sorrow than in anger, that if I am reelected they will have to move to some other Nation because of high taxes here.
Sentence 96: I shall miss them very much
Sentence 97: but if they go they will soon come back.
Sentence 98: For a year or two of paying taxes in almost any other country in the world will make them yearn once more for the good old taxes of the U.S.A.
One more word on recent history.
Sentence 99: I inherited from the previous Administration a tax structure which not only imposed an unfair income tax burden on the low-income groups of this country, but also imposed an unfair burden upon the average American by a long list of taxes on purchases and consumption- hidden taxes.
Sentence 100: In 1933 when we came into office, fifty-eight cents out of every dollar of Federal revenue came from hidden taxes.
Sentence 101: Leaving out of account the liquor tax—for liquor was illegal in 1933—we have reduced these indirect taxes to thirty-eight cents out of every dollar.
Sentence 102: How else have we improved and Americanized the tax structure?
Sentence 103: First, we gave a credit to earned income- that is, income from personal work or service- thus substantially reducing taxes paid by the working citizen.
Sentence 104: Wasn't that the American thing to do?
Sentence 105: Second, we decreased the tax rates on small corporations.
Sentence 106: Wasn't that the American thing to do?
Sentence 107: Third, we increased the taxes paid by individuals in the higher brackets—those of incomes over $50,000 a year.
Sentence 108: Wasn't that the American thing to do?
Sentence 109: Fourth, we increased still further the taxes paid by individuals in the highest brackets—those with incomes over one million dollars a year.
Sentence 110: Wasn't that the American thing to do?
Sentence 111: Fifth, we increased the tax on very large estates.
Sentence 112: Wasn't that the American thing to do?
Sentence 113: Finally, this year we had to find new revenues to meet the immediate bonus payments and to take the place of the processing taxes.
Sentence 114: This new tax, called the undistributed profits tax, is merely an extension of the individual income tax law and a plugging-up of the loopholes in it, loopholes which could be used only by men of very large incomes.
Sentence 115: I want to say a word to you average investors and stockholders who are being flooded by propaganda about this tax—propaganda, incidentally, paid for by your money.
Sentence 116: It is being disseminated by those who have used corporations in the past to build up their own economic power, who seek, by holding back your dividends, to keep down their taxes.
Sentence 117: It is a fact that 98.5 percent of all American corporations will pay a smaller normal corporation tax under the new law.
Sentence 118: It is a fact that the law permits corporations to expand and build up adequate reserves.
Sentence 119: But for the first time it gives the stockholder a practical chance to determine for himself whether to keep his earnings in the corporation for expansion purposes or to take them out.
Sentence 120: He is now the one—not the board of directors—to choose between using his dividends for something else and reinvesting them in the stock of the corporation.
Sentence 121: What we are concerned with primarily is principle, and the principle of this law is sound.
Sentence 122: If in its application imperfections are discovered, they must be corrected for the good of American business.
Sentence 123: I am certain that the average of our citizenship is not taken in by the amazing amount of other tax misinformation which has been turned loose in this political campaign.
Sentence 124: People tell you there are fifty-eight taxes on a loaf of bread, or sixty-three taxes on a lady's coat.
Sentence 125: But stop, look and listen.
Sentence 126: You will find what the propagandists do not tell you: only two or three of all of them are Federal taxes imposed by the national Government.
Sentence 127: All the rest are imposed by local, town, county, city, district and State Governments.
Sentence 128: Two-thirds of all the taxes paid in America are State and local taxes, not Federal taxes.
Sentence 129: This Administration has had something to do with these local taxes.
Sentence 130: It has made them easier to bear.
Sentence 131: At the request of local and State Governments for whom the local burden had become too heavy, we in Washington assumed the cost of paying in greater part for work for the needy unemployed.
Sentence 132: And, by a national fiscal policy aimed at reducing interest rates throughout the Nation we have greatly lightened the burden of carrying local government debts, helping those of you who own homes and farms or who pay rent.
Sentence 133: I want to say a word also to the wage earners who are finding propaganda about the security tax in their pay envelopes.
Sentence 134: I want to remind them that the new social security law was designed for them, for the greater safety of their homes and their families.
Sentence 135: The fund necessary to provide that security is not collected solely from workers.
Sentence 136: The employer, too, pays an equal share.
Sentence 137: And both shares—yours and the employer's—are being held for the sole benefit of the worker himself.
Sentence 138: I have spoken in Chicago and elsewhere of the simple fact that the overwhelming majority of business men are like the rest of us.
Sentence 139: Most of us whether we earn wages, run farms or run businesses are in one sense business men.
Sentence 140: All they seek and all we seek is fair play based on the greater good of the greater number—fair play on the part of the Government in levying taxes on us and fair play on the part of Government in protecting us against abuses.
Sentence 141: Once more this year we must choose between democracy in taxation and special privilege in taxation.
Sentence 142: Are you willing to turn the control of the Nation's taxes back to special privilege?
Sentence 143: I know the American answer to that question.
Sentence 144: Your pay envelope may be loaded with suggestions of fear, and your dividend letter may be filled with propaganda.
Sentence 145: But the American people will be neither bluffed nor bludgeoned.
Sentence 146: The seeds of fear cannot bear fruit in the polling booth.
Sentence 147: Inside the polling booth every American man and woman stands as the equal of every other American man and woman.
Sentence 148: There they have no superiors.
Sentence 149: There they have no masters save their own minds and consciences.
Sentence 150: There they are sovereign American citizens.
Sentence 151: There on November 3d they will not fear to exercise that sovereignty.
