Sentence 1: 1937 Fireside Chat 16

This afternoon I have issued a Proclamation calling a special session of the Congress to convene on Monday, November 15,1937.
Sentence 2: I do this in order to give to the Congress an opportunity to consider important legislation before the regular session in January, and to enable the Congress to avoid a lengthy session next year, extending through the summer.
Sentence 3: I know that many enemies of democracy will say that it is bad for the tranquillity of the country, to have a special session—even one beginning only six weeks before the regular session.
Sentence 4: But I have never had sympathy with the point of view that a session of the Congress is an unfortunate intrusion of what they call "politics" into our national affairs.
Sentence 5: Those who do not like democracy want to keep legislators at home.
Sentence 6: But the Congress is an essential instrument of democratic government; and democratic government can never 'be considered an intruder into the affairs of a democratic nation.
Sentence 7: I shall ask this special session to consider immediately certain important legislation which my recent trip through the nation convinces me the American people immediately need.
Sentence 8: This does not mean that other legislation, to which I am not referring tonight, is not important for our national well-being.
Sentence 9: But other legislation can be more readily discussed at the regular session.
Sentence 10: Anyone charged with proposing or judging national policies should have first hand knowledge of the nation as a whole.
Sentence 11: That is why again this year I have taken trips to all parts of the country.
Sentence 12: Last spring I visited the Southwest.
Sentence 13: This summer I made several trips in the East.
Sentence 14: Now I am just back from a trip all the way across the continent, and later this autumn I hope to pay my annual visit to the Southeast.
Sentence 15: For a President especially it is a duty to think in national terms.
Sentence 16: He must think not only of this year but of future years when someone else will be President.
Sentence 17: He must look beyond the average of the prosperity and wellbeing of the country, for averages easily cover up danger spots of poverty and instability.
Sentence 18: He must not let the country be deceived by a merely temporary prosperity which depends on wasteful exploitation of resources which cannot last.
Sentence 19: He must think not only of keeping us out of war today, but also of keeping us out of war in generations to come.
Sentence 20: The kind of prosperity we want is the sound and permanent kind which is not built up temporarily at the expense of any section or any group.
Sentence 21: And the kind of peace we want is the sound and permanent kind, which is built on the cooperative search for peace by all the nations which want peace.
Sentence 22: The other day I was asked to state my outstanding impression gained on this recent trip.
Sentence 23: I said that it seemed to me to be the general understanding on the part of the average citizen of the broad objectives and policies which I have just outlined.
Sentence 24: Five years of fierce discussion and debate, five years of information through the radio and the moving picture, have taken the whole nation to school in the nation's business.
Sentence 25: Even those who have most attacked our objectives have, by their very criticism, encouraged the mass of our citizens to think about and understand the issues involved, and understanding, to approve.
Sentence 26: Out of that process, we have learned to think as a nation.
Sentence 27: And out of that process we have learned to feel ourselves a nation.
Sentence 28: As never before in our history, each section of America says to every other section, "Thy people shall be my people.
Sentence 29: "
For most of the country this has been a good year, better in dollars and cents than for many years, far better in the soundness of its prosperity.
Sentence 30: And everywhere I went, I found particular optimism about the good effect on business which is expected from the steady spending by farmers of the largest farm income in many years.
Sentence 31: But we have not yet done all that must be done to make this prosperity stable.
Sentence 32: The people of the United States were checked in their efforts to prevent future piling up of huge agricultural surpluses and the tumbling prices which inevitably follow them.
Sentence 33: They were checked in their efforts to secure reasonable minimum wages and maximum hours and the end of child labor.
Sentence 34: And because they were checked, many groups in many parts of the country still have less purchasing power and a lower standard of living than the nation as a whole can permanently allow.
Sentence 35: Americans realize these facts.
Sentence 36: That is why they ask government not to stop governing simply because prosperity has come back a long way.
Sentence 37: They do not look on government as an interloper in their affairs.
Sentence 38: On the contrary, they regard it as the most effective form of organized self-help.
Sentence 39: Sometimes I get bored sitting in Washington hearing certain people talk and talk about all that government ought not do, people who got all they wanted from government back in the days when the financial institutions and the railroads were being bailed out by the Government in 1933.
Sentence 40: It is refreshing to go out through the country and feel the common wisdom that the time to repair the roof is when the sun is shining.
Sentence 41: They want the financial budget balanced.
Sentence 42: But they want the human budget balanced as well.
Sentence 43: They want to set up a national economy which balances itself with as little government subsidy as possible, for they realize that persistent subsidies ultimately bankrupt their government.
Sentence 44: They are less concerned that every detail be immediately right than they are that direction be right.
Sentence 45: They know that just so long as we are traveling on the right road, it does not make much difference if occasionally we hit a "Thank you maam.
Sentence 46: "
The overwhelming majority of our citizens who live by agriculture are thinking very clearly how they want government to help them in connection with the production of crops.
Sentence 47: They want government help in two ways: first, in the control of surpluses, and, second, in the proper use of land.
Sentence 48: The other day a reporter told me he had never been able to understand why the government seeks to curtail crop production and, at the same time, to open up new irrigated acres.
Sentence 49: He was confusing two totally separate objectives.
Sentence 50: Crop surplus control relates to the total amount of any major crop grown in the whole nation on all cultivated land- good or bad—control by the cooperation of the crop growers and with the help of the government.
Sentence 51: Land use, on the other hand, is a policy of providing each farmer with the best quality and type of land we have, or can make available, for his part in that total production.
Sentence 52: Adding good new land for diversified crops is offset by abandoning poor land now uneconomically farmed.
Sentence 53: The total amount of production largely determines the price of the crop, and, therefore, the difference between comfort and misery for the farmer.
Sentence 54: If we were foolish enough to run every shoe factory twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, we Would soon have more shoes than the nation could possibly buy, a surplus of shoes that would have to be destroyed, or given away, or sold at prices far below the cost of production.
Sentence 55: That simple law of supply and demand equally affects the price of all our major crops.
Sentence 56: You and I have heard big manufacturers talk about control of production by the farmer as an indefensible "economy of scarcity."
Sentence 57: And yet these same manufacturers never hesitate to shut down their own huge plants, throw men out of work, and cut down the purchasing power of whole communities whenever they think they must adjust their production to an oversupply of the goods they make.
Sentence 58: When it is their baby who has the measles, they call it not "an economy of scarcity" but "sound business judgment.
Sentence 59: "
Of course, speaking seriously, what you and I want is such governmental rules of the game that labor, agriculture and industry will produce a balanced abundance without waste.
Sentence 60: We intend this winter to find a way to prevent four-and-a-half cent cotton, nine-cent corn and thirty-cent wheat—with all the disaster those prices mean for all of us—from ever coming back again.
Sentence 61: To do that, the farmers themselves want to cooperate to build an all-weather farm program so that in the long run prices will be more stable.
Sentence 62: They believe this can be done, and the' national budget kept out of the red.
Sentence 63: And when we have found that way to protect the farmers' prices from the effects of alternating crop surpluses and crop scarcities, we shall also have found the way to protect the nation's food supply from the effects of the same fluctuation.
Sentence 64: We ought always to have enough food at prices within the reach of the consuming public.
Sentence 65: For the consumers in the cities of America, we must find a way to help the farmers to store up in years of plenty enough to avoid hardship in the years of scarcity.
Sentence 66: Our land use policy is a different thing.
Sentence 67: I have just visited much of the work that the national government is doing to stop soil erosion, to save our forests, to prevent floods, to produce electric power for more general use, and to give people a chance to move from poor land on to better land by irrigating thousands of acres that need only water to provide an opportunity to make a good living.
Sentence 68: I saw bare and burned hillsides where only a few years ago great forests were growing.
Sentence 69: They are now being planted to young trees, not only to stop erosion, but to provide a lumber supply for the future.
Sentence 70: I saw CCC boys and WPA workers building check-dams and small ponds and terraces to raise the water table and make it possible for farms and villages to remain in safety where they now are.
Sentence 71: I saw the harnessing of the turbulent Missouri, muddy with the top soil of many States.
Sentence 72: And I saw barges on new channels carrying produce and freight athwart the nation.
Sentence 73: Let me give you two simple illustrations of why government projects of this type have a national importance for the whole country.
Sentence 74: In the Boise Valley in Idaho I saw a district which had been recently irrigated to enormous fertility so that a family can now make a pretty good living from forty acres of its land.
Sentence 75: Many of the families, who are making good in that valley today, moved there from a thousand miles away.
Sentence 76: They came from the dust strip that runs through the middle of the nation all the way from the Canadian border to Mexico, a strip which includes large portions of ten.
Sentence 77: States.
Sentence 78: That valley in western Idaho, therefore, assumes at once a national importance as a second chance for willing farmers.
Sentence 79: And, year by year, we propose to add more valleys to take card of thousands of other families who need the same kind of second chance in new green pastures.
Sentence 80: The other illustration was at the Grand Coulee Dam in the State of Washington.
Sentence 81: The engineer in charge told me that almost half of the whole cost of that dam to date had been spent for materials that were manufactured east of the Mississippi, giving employment and wages to thousands of industrial workers in the eastern third of the nation, two thousand miles away.
Sentence 82: All of this work needs a more businesslike system of planning and greater foresight than we use today.
Sentence 83: That is why I recommended to the last session of the Congress the creation of seven planning regions, in which local people will originate and coordinate recommendations as to work of this kind to be done in their particular regions.
Sentence 84: The Congress will, of course, determine the projects to be selected within the budget limits.
Sentence 85: To carry out any twentieth century program, we must give the Executive Branch of the Government twentieth century machinery to work with.
Sentence 86: I recognize that democratic processes are necessarily and rightly slower than dictatorial processes.
Sentence 87: But I refuse to believe that democratic processes need be dangerously slow.
Sentence 88: For many years we have all known that the executive and administrative departments of the Government in Washington are a higgledy-piggledy patchwork of duplicate responsibilities and overlapping powers.
Sentence 89: The reorganization of this vast government machinery which I proposed to the Congress last winter does not conflict with the principle of the democratic process, as some people say.
Sentence 90: It only makes that process work more efficiently.'
Sentence 91: On my recent trip many people have talked to me about the millions of men and women and children who still work at insufficient wages and overlong hours.
Sentence 92: American industry has searched the outside world to find new markets, but it can create on its very doorstep the biggest and most permanent market it has ever had.
Sentence 93: It needs the reduction of trade barriers to improve its foreign markets, but it should not overlook the chance to reduce the domestic trade barrier right here, right away, without waiting for any treaty.
Sentence 94: A few more dollars a week in wages, a better distribution of jobs with a shorter working day will almost overnight make millions of our lowest-paid workers actual buyers of billions of dollars of industrial and farm products.
Sentence 95: That increased volume of sales ought to lessen other costs of production so much that even a considerable increase in labor costs can be absorbed without imposing higher prices on the consumer.
Sentence 96: I am a firm believer in fully adequate pay for all labor.
Sentence 97: But right now I am most greatly concerned in increasing the pay of the lowest-paid labor, those who are our most numerous consuming group but who today do not make enough to maintain a decent standard of living or to buy the food, clothes and other articles necessary to keep our factories and farms fully running.
Sentence 98: Farsighted business men already understand and agree with this policy.
Sentence 99: They agree also that no one section of the country can permanently benefit itself, or the rest of the country, by maintaining standards of wages and hours far inferior to other sections of the country.
Sentence 100: Most business men, big and little, know that their government neither wants to put them out of business nor to prevent them from earning a decent profit.
Sentence 101: In spite of the alarms of a few who seek to regain control of American life, most business men, big and little, know that their government is trying to make property more secure than ever before by giving every family a real chance to have a property stake in the nation.
Sentence 102: Whatever danger there may be to the property and profits of the many, if there be any danger, comes not from government's attitude toward business but from restraints now imposed upon business by private monopolies and financial oligarchies.
Sentence 103: The average business man knows that a high cost of living is a great deterrent to business and that business prosperity depends much upon a low price policy which encourages the widest possible consumption.
Sentence 104: As one of the country's leading economists recently said, "The continuance of business recovery in the United States depends far more upon business policies, business pricing policies, than it does on anything that may be done, or not done, in Washington.
Sentence 105: "
Our competitive system is not altogether competitive.
Sentence 106: Anybody who buys any large quantity of manufactured goods knows this, whether it be the government or an individual buyer.
Sentence 107: We have anti-trust laws, to be sure, but they have not been adequate to check the growth of many monopolies.
Sentence 108: Whether or not they might have been adequate originally, interpretation by the courts and the difficulties and delays of legal procedure have now definitely limited their effectiveness.
Sentence 109: We are already studying how to strengthen our anti-trust laws in order to end monopoly—not to hurt but to free legitimate business.
Sentence 110: I have touched briefly on these important subjects, which, taken together, make a program for the immediate future.
Sentence 111: To attain it, legislation is necessary ....
Sentence 112: As we plan today for the creation of ever higher standards of living for the people of the United States, we are aware that our plans may be most seriously affected by events in the world outside our borders.
Sentence 113: By a series of trade agreements, we have been attempting to recreate the trade of the world which plays so important a part in our domestic prosperity; but we know that if the world outside our borders falls into the chaos of war, world trade will be completely disrupted.
Sentence 114: Nor can we view with indifference the destruction of civilized values throughout the world.
Sentence 115: We seek peace, not only for our generation but also for the generation of our children.
Sentence 116: We seek for them the continuance of world civilization in order that their American civilization may continue to be invigorated by the achievements of civilized men and women in the rest of the world.
Sentence 117: I want our great democracy to be wise enough to realize that aloofness from war is not promoted by unawareness of war.
Sentence 118: In a world of mutual suspicions, peace must be affirmatively reached for.
Sentence 119: It cannot just be wished for.
Sentence 120: It cannot just be waited for.
Sentence 121: We have now made known our willingness to attend a conference of the parties to the Nine Power Treaty of 1922, the Treaty of Washington, of which we are one of the original signatories.
Sentence 122: The purpose of this conference will be to seek by agreement a solution of the present situation in China, In efforts to find that solution, it is our purpose to cooperate with the other signatories to this Treaty, including China and Japan.
Sentence 123: Such cooperation would be an example of one of the possible paths to follow in our search for means toward peace throughout the whole world.
Sentence 124: The development of civilization and of human welfare is based on the acceptance by individuals of certain fundamental decencies in their relations with each other.
Sentence 125: The development of peace in the world is dependent similarly on the acceptance by nations of certain fundamental decencies in their relations with each other.
Sentence 126: Ultimately, I hope each nation will accept the fact that violations of these rules of conduct are an injury to the well-being of all nations.
Sentence 127: Meanwhile, remember that from 1913 to 1921, I personally was fairly close to world events, and in that period, while I learned much of what to do, I also learned much of what not to do.
Sentence 128: The common sense, the intelligence of America agree with my statement that "America hates war.
Sentence 129: America hopes for peace.
Sentence 130: Therefore, America actively engages in the search for peace."
