Sentence 1: 1937 Excerpts From The Press Conference 97

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: Anticipating what you are going to ask and in order to save time (laughter), I know approximately what is on your minds and I want to be helpful if I can.
Sentence 3: Therefore I am going to give you this statement for direct quotation.
Sentence 4: Get out your pencils.
Sentence 5: (Reading) "I know only what I have read in the newspapers.
Sentence 6: I know that the stories are appearing serially"—not seriously, I said "serially"—"and their publication is not complete.
Sentence 7: Mr. Justice Black is in Europe where, undoubtedly, he cannot get the full text of these articles.
Sentence 8: Until such time as he returns, there is no further comment to be made.
Sentence 9: "
That is all.
Sentence 10: Q. Will you read the whole thing again, sir?
Sentence 11: THE PRESIDENT: "I know only what I have read in the newspapers.
Sentence 12: I know that the stories are appearing serially and their publication is not complete.
Sentence 13: Mr. Justice Black is in Europe where, undoubtedly, he cannot get the full text of these articles.
Sentence 14: Until such time as he returns, there is no further comment to be made.
Sentence 15: "
Q. Has Mr. Justice Black been communicated with by you or any member of your Administration?
Sentence 16: THE PRESIDENT; No.
Q.
Sentence 17: You said, "No"?
Sentence 18: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 19: No; I said, "No."
Q. Have you any information as to the time of his return?
Sentence 20: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 21: No.
Q.
Sentence 22: Prior to the appointment of former Senator Black, had you received any information from any source as to his Klan membership?
Sentence 23: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 24: No.
Q.
Sentence 25: May we ask, if it turns out that he is a member—
THE PRESIDENT: That is an "if" question.
Sentence 26: Q. Did the Department of Justice make the usual investigation that they do with respect to members of the judiciary as to Mr. Justice Black?
THE PRESIDENT: I don't know. . .
Sentence 27: .
Sentence 28: Q. Mr. President, can you tell us anything about your talk with Mr. Hull and Mr. Kennedy today?
Sentence 29: THE PRESIDENT: I think we will probably have something—I don't know whether you will get it tonight or tomorrow-in regard to shipping headed for the Far East.
Sentence 30: I cannot give you anything because it is not written out yet.
Sentence 31: Q. Headed toward the Far East?
Sentence 32: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know whether it will be ready tonight or whether you will have to wait until tomorrow.
Sentence 33: Q. Will that apply particularly to the steamer Wichita?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 34: No, it will be general.
Sentence 35: Q.
Sentence 36: Can you tell us anything about the Wichita which is Government owned?
THE PRESIDENT: I think the Wichita at the present time is proceeding from one American port to another.
Sentence 37: Q. Are you still considering the application of the Neutrality Act?
Sentence 38: THE PRESIDENT: That is always under consideration and has been for weeks.
Sentence 39: Q.
Sentence 40: To get back to the Black situation, did the Senate discharge its full responsibility?
Sentence 41: THE PRESIDENT: (Reading) "Until such time as he returns, there is no further comment to be made.
Sentence 42: "
Q. That seems to be a hint that there may be a further statement after he returns.
Sentence 43: THE PRESIDENT: No, don't write yourself out on a limb.
