Sentence 1: 1937 Excerpts From The Press Conference 93

Q.
Sentence 2: Do you believe that you may make an appointment to the Supreme Court to succeed Justice VanDevanter?
Sentence 3: THE PRESIDENT: Oh, undoubtedly; absolutely.
Sentence 4: Q. Is that on the record or off the record?
Sentence 5: THE PRESIDENT: That is on the record.
Sentence 6: Q. Would you care to indicate, sir, about when that appointment may come?
Sentence 7: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 8: Well, I will tell you.
Sentence 9: When it comes you are not going to have any notice of it at all.
Sentence 10: The first that will be known probably is when it actually goes up to the Senate.
Sentence 11: Q.
Sentence 12: When it goes up to the Senate?
Sentence 13: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 14: Yes, when it goes up to the Senate, you will know.
Sentence 15: (Laughter) Don't go of[ the deep end on that, either.
Sentence 16: There are lots of things.
Sentence 17: That is probably the first you will know about it.
Sentence 18: Q. Is that remark deliberate, that part about when it goes to the Senate?
Sentence 19: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 20: Yes, you can use that.
Sentence 21: Q.
Sentence 22: In all seriousness, does that mean there will be no recess appointment in this case?
Sentence 23: THE PRESIDENT: It is just as I told you.
Sentence 24: I cannot write your story for you, Fred [Essary].
Sentence 25: (Laughter)
Sentence 26: Q. Will you discuss your Supreme Court reorganization program in your Constitution Day speech?
Sentence 27: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 28: The answer is that I have forgotten that I was making a speech on Constitution Day until you reminded me of it.
Sentence 29: Q.
Sentence 30: Now that you do know of it, will you— (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT: What do you want, just a snap judgment on something I had not thought about at all?
Sentence 31: No, I cannot give it to you.
Sentence 32: I have not thought about it at all.
Sentence 33: Q. At the last conference you were contemplating a trip up to Hyde Park this coming week.
Sentence 34: Is that more definite?
Sentence 35: THE PRESIDENT: Nothing is definite in this life.
Sentence 36: If everything is all quiet on the Far Eastern Front and on Capitol Hill, I am leaving on Friday, midnight, and getting there Saturday morning and probably coming back Sunday night and getting here Monday morning.
Sentence 37: But even that is in the lap of the gods.
Sentence 38: Q. Mr. President, there is quite a bit of agitation in the South for the Commodity Credit Corporation to make a twelve cent loan to check the decline in prices of cotton.
Sentence 39: Have you any comment to make on that?
Sentence 40: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 41: If you want me to talk about cotton, for background, I can tell you what I have said before on so many occasions.
Sentence 42: We inherited, in spite of—what was it called—the Farm Board in the Hoover Administration, we inherited in 1933, five cent cotton and a thirteen million bale carry-over.
Sentence 43: Then we adopted a policy in 1933.
Sentence 44: The first was to curtail crops until we got that carry-over down to a reasonable amount which we figured out, as long ago as that, to be around five billion bales.
Sentence 45: Also, as a part of that policy, we started in to buy cotton to increase the price and maintain the price.
Sentence 46: Obviously if you go ahead and buy—in other words, loan money on cotton, which is the same thing—if you do that without curtailment of surpluses you will break the Treasury and the longer you keep it up the worse the Treasury goes broke.
Sentence 47: That is obvious.
Sentence 48: The two things went hand in hand.
Sentence 49: We loaned money to take cotton off the market immediately but with the definite idea of the curtailment in crops.
Sentence 50: In that way you would be able to sell that surplus when the total of the carry-over was reduced to a normal point.
Sentence 51: The thing culminated this year.
Sentence 52: The past Spring we got the total carry-over down to about five million bales, and the price was up over twelve cents.
Sentence 53: Everything "hunky dory," lovely and everybody happy.
Sentence 54: And the price would have stayed around twelve cents if we had had a continuation of surplus control.
Sentence 55: That however was eliminated-
Sentence 56: we know how and when.
Sentence 57: There has been no surplus control since then.
Sentence 58: Q.E.D
This year you have one of the biggest crops that ever happened, fourteen and a half million bales of which about four million bales will, in all probability, go into surplus on the basis of the present consumption and export.
Sentence 59: The result is that we face about a year from now, about the end of this year, about a nine million bale carry-over.
Sentence 60: Now, I have no intention of asking Congress for the right to lend money on that crop unless at the same time we have legislation restoring surplus control; otherwise you are just selling into a bag or buying out of a bottomless sack, which is a better description.
Sentence 61: Q.
Sentence 62: It was brought out on the Senate floor that you have the thought in mind that the Commodity Credit Corporation would make these loans now without any additional legislation from the Congress.
Sentence 63: THE PRESIDENT: I cannot make loans until we have some solution in the future of the surplus problem.
Sentence 64: Q. With equivalent figures, can that same thing be applied to other crops?
Sentence 65: THE PRESIDENT: It applies absolutely the same way, with different figures of course, to wheat, corn, hogs and a number of other major crops where we used surplus control in the past.
Sentence 66: When we get it back, as we are bound to, we will be able without any question to resume our efforts to get a decent price with reference to cotton and a reasonable assurance that that price will be maintained year in and year out.
Sentence 67: Q. Does that indicate that your soil conservation program is not working out?
Sentence 68: THE PRESIDENT: On the contrary, the soil conservation end of it is working out very well, but, as you know, the soil conservation does not go into control over surplus.
Sentence 69: Q.
Sentence 70: I thought it did.
Sentence 71: THE PRESIDENT: To a very small degree. . . .
Sentence 72: Q. Getting back to agriculture.
Sentence 73: In addition to this cotton pressure, there is also considerable agitation beginning to come up from the corn country with corn dropping to almost half.
Sentence 74: Does this indicate that you are going to ask Congress to pass a control bill this Session?
Sentence 75: THE PRESIDENT: I just told you that crop control is inevitable unless we are going to wreck the economics of the country because every time that cotton goes down to under ten cents or wheat below eighty cents, the purchasing power of onehalf the country dries up and the wheels of the factories slow up.
Sentence 76: It is the same old story.
Sentence 77: There is nothing new in it.
Sentence 78: We started in the Spring of 1933 with a perfectly good economic program and it is going to go through.
Sentence 79: The country is going to demand it.
Sentence 80: Q.
Sentence 81: What we would like to know is whether you are going to ask Congress to pass that bill this Session?
Sentence 82: THE PRESIDENT: I cannot tell you any spot.
Sentence 83: I am talking general principles.
Sentence 84: I cannot give you dates and messages.
Sentence 85: Q.
Sentence 86: Can you tell us if you approve Mr. Green's amendment for the Wages and Hour Bill today?
Sentence 87: THE PRESIDENT: I have not read Mr. Green's amendment.
Sentence 88: I think he made it clear when he went out, that he had told me about three matters of principle.
Sentence 89: Now, three matters of principle are a very different thing.
Sentence 90: I don't know what the amendments are.
Sentence 91: I am in favor of retaining collective bargaining.
Sentence 92: I am in favor of retaining the provisions of the Walsh-Healey Act and I am in favor of doing nothing to fix wages lower than the going rate in the vicinity.
Sentence 93: Now, those are matters of principle.
Sentence 94: Q. Mr. President, have you asked or do you contemplate asking the various government lending agencies to increase the liquidation of their assets in accordance with your reduced budget message of last April?
Sentence 95: THE PRESIDENT; Nothing other than what we have been doing right along.
Sentence 96: It is coming along very well.
Sentence 97: You know, it does not rest entirely in their own hands.
Sentence 98: For instance, if we have loaned money to a bank and it is due on a certain date and the bank does not want to pay it back until that date, it has a perfect right not to pay it back until then. . . .
