Sentence 1: 1937 Inaugural Address 7

When four years ago we met to inaugurate a President, the Republic, single-minded in anxiety, stood in spirit here.
Sentence 2: We dedicated ourselves to the fulfillment of a vision—to speed the time when there would be for all the people that security and peace essential to the pursuit of happiness.
Sentence 3: We of the Republic pledged ourselves to drive from the temple of our ancient faith those who had profaned it; to end by action, tireless and unafraid, the stagnation and despair of that day.
Sentence 4: We did those first things first.
Sentence 5: Our covenant with ourselves did not stop there.
Sentence 6: Instinctively we recognized a deeper need—the need to find through government the instrument of our united purpose to solve for the individual the ever-rising problems of a complex civilization.
Sentence 7: Repeated attempts at their solution without the aid of government had left us baffled and bewildered.
Sentence 8: For, without that aid, we had been unable to create those moral controls over the services of science which are necessary to make science a useful servant instead of a ruthless master of mankind.
Sentence 9: To do this we knew that we must find practical controls over blind economic forces and blindly selfish men.
Sentence 10: We of the Republic sensed the truth that democratic government has innate capacity to protect its people against disasters once considered inevitable, to solve problems once considered unsolvable.
Sentence 11: We would not admit that we could not find a way to master economic epidemics just as, after centuries of fatalistic suffering, we had found a way to master epidemics of disease.
Sentence 12: We refused to leave the problems of our common welfare to be solved by the winds of chance and the hurricanes of disaster.
Sentence 13: In this we Americans were discovering no wholly new truth; we were writing a new chapter in our book of self-government.
Sentence 14: This year marks the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the Constitutional Convention which made us a nation.
Sentence 15: At that Convention our forefathers found the way out of the chaos which followed the Revolutionary War; they created a strong government with powers of united action sufficient then and now to solve problems utterly beyond individual or local solution.
Sentence 16: A century and a half ago they established the Federal Government in order to promote the general welfare and secure the blessings of liberty to the American people.
Sentence 17: Today we invoke those same powers of government to achieve the same objectives.
Sentence 18: Four years of new experience have not belied our historic instinct.
Sentence 19: They hold out the clear hope that government within communities, government within the separate States, and government of the United States can do the things the times require, without yielding its democracy.
Sentence 20: Our tasks in the last four years did not force democracy to take a holiday.
Sentence 21: Nearly all of us recognize that as intricacies of human relationships increase, so power to govern them also must increase--power to stop evil; power to do good.
Sentence 22: The essential democracy of our Nation and the safety of our people depend not upon the absence of power, but upon lodging it with those whom the people can change or continue at stated intervals through an honest and free system of elections.
Sentence 23: The Constitution of 1787 did not make our democracy impotent.
Sentence 24: In fact, in these last four years, we have made the exercise of all power more democratic; for we have begun to bring private autocratic powers into their proper subordination to the public's government.
Sentence 25: The legend that they were invincible above and beyond the processes of a democracy—has been shattered.
Sentence 26: They have been challenged and beaten.
Sentence 27: Our progress out of the depression is obvious.
Sentence 28: But that is not all that you
Sentence 29: and I mean by the new order of things.
Sentence 30: Our pledge was not merely to do a patchwork job with second-hand materials.
Sentence 31: By using the new materials of social justice we have undertaken to erect on the old foundations a more enduring structure for the better use of future generations.
Sentence 32: In that purpose we have been helped by achievements of mind and spirit.
Sentence 33: Old truths have been relearned; untruths have been unlearned.
Sentence 34: We have always known that heedless self-interest was bad morals; we know now that it is bad economics.
Sentence 35: Out of the collapse of a prosperity whose builders boasted their practicality has come the conviction that in the long run economic morality pays.
Sentence 36: We are beginning to wipe out the line that divides the practical from the ideal; and in so doing we are fashioning an instrument of unimagined power for the establishment of a morally better world.
Sentence 37: This new understanding undermines the old admiration of worldly success as such.
Sentence 38: We are beginning to abandon our tolerance of the abuse of power by those who betray for profit the elementary decencies of life.
Sentence 39: In this process evil things formerly accepted will not be so easily condoned.
Sentence 40: Hard-headedness will not so easily excuse hardheartedness.
Sentence 41: We are moving toward an era of good feeling.
Sentence 42: But we realize that there can be no era of good feeling save among men of good will.
Sentence 43: For these reasons I am justified in believing that the greatest change we have witnessed has been the change in the moral climate of America.
Sentence 44: Among men of good will, science and democracy together offer an ever-richer life and ever-larger satisfaction to the individual.
Sentence 45: With this change in our moral climate and our rediscovered ability to improve our economic order, we have set our feet upon the road of enduring progress.
Sentence 46: Shall we pause now and turn our back upon the road that lies ahead?
Sentence 47: Shall we call this the promised land?
Sentence 48: Or, shall we continue on our way?
Sentence 49: For "each age is a dream that is dying, or one that is coming to birth.
Sentence 50: "
Many voices are heard as we face a great decision.
Sentence 51: Comfort says, "Tarry a while."
Sentence 52: Opportunism says, "This is a good spot."
Sentence 53: Timidity asks, "How difficult is the road ahead?"
Sentence 54: True, we have come far from the days of stagnation and despair.
Sentence 55: Vitality has been preserved.
Sentence 56: Courage and confidence have been restored.
Sentence 57: Mental and moral horizons have been extended.
Sentence 58: But our present gains were won under the pressure of more than ordinary circumstance.
Sentence 59: Advance became imperative under the goad of fear and suffering.
Sentence 60: The times were on the side of progress.
Sentence 61: To hold to progress today, however, is more difficult.
Sentence 62: Dulled conscience, irresponsibility, and ruthless self-interest already reappear.
Sentence 63: Such symptoms of prosperity may become portents of disaster!
Sentence 64: Prosperity already tests the persistence of our progressive purpose.
Sentence 65: Let us ask again: Have we reached the goal of our vision of that fourth day of March, 1933?
Sentence 66: Have we found our happy valley?
Sentence 67: I see a great nation, upon a great continent, blessed with a great wealth of natural resources.
Sentence 68: Its hundred and thirty million people are at peace among themselves; they are making their country a good neighbor among the nations.
Sentence 69: I see a United States which can demonstrate that, under democratic methods of government, national wealth can be translated into a spreading volume of human comforts hitherto unknown, and the lowest standard of living can be raised far above the level of mere subsistence.
Sentence 70: But here is the challenge to our democracy:
Sentence 71: In this nation I see tens of millions of its citizens—a substantial part of its whole population—who at this very moment are denied the greater part of what the very lowest standards of today call the necessities of life.
Sentence 72: I see millions of families trying to live on incomes so meager that the pall of family disaster hangs over them day by day.
Sentence 73: I see millions whose daily lives in city and on farm continue under conditions labeled indecent by a so-called polite society half a century ago.
Sentence 74: I see millions denied education, recreation, and the opportunity to better their lot and the lot of their children.
Sentence 75: I see millions lacking the means to buy the products of farm and factory and by their poverty denying work and productiveness to many other millions.
Sentence 76: I see one-third of a nation ill-housed, ill-clad, ill-nourished.
Sentence 77: It is not in despair that I paint you that picture.
Sentence 78: I paint it for you in hope—because the Nation, seeing and understanding the injustice in it, proposes to paint it out.
Sentence 79: We are determined to make every American citizen the subject of his country's interest and concern; and we will never regard any faithful, law-abiding group within our borders as superfluous.
Sentence 80: The test of our progress is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much; it is whether we provide enough for those who have too little.
Sentence 81: If I know aught of the spirit and purpose of our Nation, we will not listen to Comfort, Opportunism, and Timidity.
Sentence 82: We will carry on.
Sentence 83: Overwhelmingly, we of the Republic are men and women of good will; men and women who have more than warm hearts of dedication; men and women who have cool heads and willing hands of practical purpose as well.
Sentence 84: They will insist that every agency of popular government use effective instruments to carry out their will.
Sentence 85: Government is competent when all who compose it work as trustees for the whole people.
Sentence 86: It can make constant progress when it keeps abreast of all the facts.
Sentence 87: It can obtain justified support and legitimate criticism when the people receive true information of all that government does.
Sentence 88: If I know aught of the will of our people, they will demand that these conditions of effective government shall be created and maintained.
Sentence 89: They will demand a nation uncorrupted by cancers of injustice and, therefore, strong among the nations in its example of the will to peace.
Sentence 90: Today we reconsecrate our country to long-cherished ideals in a suddenly changed civilization.
Sentence 91: In every land there are always at work forces that drive men apart and forces that draw men together.
Sentence 92: In our personal ambitions we are individualists.
Sentence 93: But in our seeking for economic and political progress as a nation, we all go up, or else we all go down, as one people.
Sentence 94: To maintain a democracy of effort requires a vast amount of patience in dealing with differing methods, a vast amount of humility.
Sentence 95: But out of the confusion of many voices rises an understanding of dominant public need.
Sentence 96: Then political leadership can voice common ideals, and aid in their realization.
Sentence 97: In taking again the oath of office as President of the United States, I assume the solemn obligation of leading the American people forward along the road over which they have chosen to advance.
Sentence 98: While this duty rests upon me I shall do my utmost to speak their purpose and to do their will, seeking Divine guidance to help us each and every one to give light to them that sit in darkness and to guide our feet into the way of peace.
