Sentence 1: 1937 Excerpts From The Press Conference 90

THE PRESIDENT: Some of you older people will be very glad to welcome an old Washington friend of yours, Senator Simmons of North Carolina.
Sentence 2: He has not been down here for a long time.
Sentence 3: (Applause)
Outside of that I don't think there is any particular news.
Sentence 4: I am going down the river at ten o'clock tonight.
Sentence 5: Senator Barkley is going with me and I think Bob La Follette and his wife.
Sentence 6: Q. Do you plan any further campaign with regard to the Supreme Court?
Sentence 7: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 8: Further campaign?
Sentence 9: Q. Yes, sir.
Sentence 10: THE PRESIDENT: I haven't made any campaign; I sent a message to the Congress.
Sentence 11: Q.
Sentence 12: Do you have any further efforts in mind?
Sentence 13: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 14: They are still working up there.
Sentence 15: Q.
Sentence 16: Can you give us a comment on the situation, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 17: Oh, I don't know that any comment is necessary.
Sentence 18: I think it goes back, just for background, to fundamentals and objectives just the same way we talked about right along.
Sentence 19: There were, as you know, certain original objectives.
Sentence 20: Well, go back to the days when Senator Simmons was here, in his early days, even.
Sentence 21: There was a lot of feeling back in T.R.'s time about the need for judicial reform.
Sentence 22: It took the form, in the 1912 campaign, of the Progressive Party asking for all kinds of things like recall of judges and overriding of decisions by popular vote.
Sentence 23: Well, the interesting thing was that for about fifteen or twenty years that demand on the part of a very large group of Americans had an enormous effect on the courts, as you all know.
Sentence 24: Even as late as 1924 the elder Senator La Follette and Senator Wheeler, on the La Follette-Wheeler ticket, ran on a platform that demanded all kinds of drastic things.
Sentence 25: And, during those years when there was agitation for judicial reform, there were some pretty effective results.
Sentence 26: The courts listened and they legislated (laughter)—I mean they decided (laughter)- it is the same thing—they made their decisions more on judicial lines than on legislative lines.
Sentence 27: Of course later on, when the cry had died during the Coolidge administration and the Hoover administration, there was a great deal more in the way of legislative action on the part of the courts.
Sentence 28: Of course, the people of the country have always realized that courts should be judicial and not legislative.
Sentence 29: The same thing had to be done again this year.
Sentence 30: The result was a message for the improvement of the whole judicial system.
Sentence 31: It is rather interesting that a good part of that objective has already been obtained, temporarily.
Sentence 32: I say, "temporarily," but I hope permanently.
Sentence 33: I was getting a rather interesting check on what has happened, a comparison between what has happened and this past term of the Supreme Court.
Sentence 34: Before the 5th of February, the Supreme Court held the Triple A unconstitutional, limiting the Federal spending power.
Sentence 35: After the 5th of February, through the Social Security case, they, in effect, overruled the Triple A case.
Sentence 36: It was a new interpretation of Federal spending and taxing power.
Sentence 37: Before the 5th of February they held the Guffey Act unconstitutional, limiting the Federal commerce power, and after the 5th of February they held the Wagner Act constitutional, reversing the Guffey case.
Sentence 38: It was a new interpretation of the Federal commerce power.
Sentence 39: Before the 5th of February they held the New York Minimum Wage Law unconstitutional, limiting the states through the due process clause.
Sentence 40: They reversed that in the Washington Minimum Wage case, overruling the New York Minimum Wage case, which was a new interpretation of the due process clause applied to the states.
Sentence 41: The net result is that we have obtained certain objectives, talking in the large.
Sentence 42: The country still wants assurance—I put it this way—assurance of the continuity of that objective, and the country, of course, wants a better judicial mechanism by giving maximum justice in minimum time.
Sentence 43: On that, of course, bringing it down to the current situation, there is nothing more that I can say except that the general purpose back of the Barkley letter last week—put it this way—naturally, it is the duty of the President to propose and it is the privilege of the Congress to dispose.
Sentence 44: There has been another very great gain, and that is that the country, as much as and probably more than in the 1910 to '12 era, is not only Court-conscious, but it is Constitution minded, which is a tremendous factor.
Sentence 45: The people understand pretty thoroughly today, the great majority, that the Constitution is not intended to block social and economic reforms through Court legislation, if those social and economic reforms are necessary to the Nation for its general welfare with changing times.
Sentence 46: So, that is the current situation—again looking at the forest and not the trees.
Sentence 47: Q. Are you satisfied with it, sir, as far as it has gone?
Sentence 48: THE PRESIDENT: With the progress so far?
Sentence 49: Q. Yes, sir.
Sentence 50: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 51: Well, we are getting somewhere, but we have a long ways to go because the country, I think, really pretty well understands what it is all about.
Sentence 52: Q.
Sentence 53: How much of that is off the record?
Sentence 54: THE PRESIDENT: You can use it all for background. . .
Sentence 55: .
Sentence 56: Q. Have you, sir, had any satisfactory conversations with Congressional leaders as to what further legislation might be desirable?
Sentence 57: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 58: Well, Fred [Essary], I think the only thing one can say about that is that if you go through the messages you will find that there are quite a number of recommendations that have been made.
Sentence 59: Again, they are up to the President to suggest and to the Congress to act on, one way or the other.
Sentence 60: They have three methods of acting on them.
Sentence 61: One is not acting at all; another is to reject them, and another to put them through.
Sentence 62: There are quite a number of those things which—again for background—are rather essential to the future of the country.
Sentence 63: There is a certain element which need not be named, you know them, I might say, better than I do, who say, "Let us go home and do nothing.
Sentence 64: "
I had a very prominent publisher come in the other day, and he said, "What do you want anything new for?
Sentence 65: Why, everybody is so prosperous, they don't know what to do.
Sentence 66: The crops are big and the prices for crops are fine and there is more employment, reemployment, all the time in industry than ever before."
Sentence 67: And I said to him, "You are an old man, like me.
Sentence 68: You remember as far back as the Coolidge administration.
Sentence 69: You remember the attitude in those years of 1927 and 1928 and 1929, the first three-quarters of 1929.
Sentence 70: 'Everything is lovely, boys; don't rock the boat.
Sentence 71: Everything is fine.
Sentence 72: Everybody is making money.
Sentence 73: Look at the Stock Exchange.
Sentence 74: Everything is grand.
Sentence 75: The first thing you know we will have one chicken in every pot and two cars in every garage, if we just let everything alone.'
Sentence 76: "
"Well, of course, there are a lot of things," I said to him, "but I will just cite one simple example.
Sentence 77: Suppose, for the sake of argument, we do not do anything about cotton crops.
Sentence 78: Well, this year Nature has been good to us and we are raising, I don't know what, fourteen and a half million bales of cotton— something like that.
Sentence 79: Now, we have the cotton carryover cut down to a pretty reasonable point so that it is not hanging over the market, it is not depressing prices.
Sentence 80: Well, if this fourteen and a half million bale crop materializes-
Sentence 81: they still have to pick most of it, all of it in fact- we probably cannot possibly use for export all of that crop.
Sentence 82: It means we will add a lot to the surplus.
Sentence 83: Suppose Nature is good again next year, and, by the way, they put cotton into the ground in Southern Georgia and Northern Florida around the end of February and beginning of March.
Sentence 84: Suppose they raise another fourteen and a half million bales next year and the Government does not do anything about it?
Sentence 85: It is always possible we might see 8 cent cotton again or 7 cent cotton or 6 cent cotton.
Sentence 86: "
Now, that is very hard to answer, and this particular publisher found it hard to answer.
Sentence 87: He finally said, "Well, let Nature take its course."
Sentence 88: I said, "Yes, you see what happened in 1929 when Nature was allowed to take its course.
Sentence 89: "
I just cite that as an example.
Sentence 90: You can go on with that in relation to all the other crops, to wages and hours, reorganization of Government, housing, all those things.
Sentence 91: There is the situation.
Sentence 92: It is in the lap of the Legislative Branch of the Government.
Sentence 93: It is tied up with what the future of the country is going to be, whether it is going to be uncontrolled with the possibility of 1929 over again, or controlled by reasonable legislation that will seek to prevent a crash. . . .
