Sentence 1: 1937 Press Conference 21

MR. GODWIN: (Referring to Inauguration Day Address delivered in the open during a very heavy rainstorm)
Sentence 2: Did you have any ill effects?
Sentence 3: Did you get a cold?
THE PRESIDENT: Not a sign of one.
Sentence 4: Charlie
Sentence 5: [Michelson] got one.
Sentence 6: Q. Steve
Sentence 7: [Early] said that you wore out two silk hats.
Sentence 8: Q.
Sentence 9: That was about the all-time high of bad weather.
Sentence 10: THE PRESIDENT: I think it was.
Sentence 11: MR. DONALDSON: All in.
Sentence 12: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 13: Well, judging by the looks of people, I should say you could take it, too.
Sentence 14: (Laughter)
Q. Nothing but a little rain.
Sentence 15: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 16: Yes.
Sentence 17: I don't think there is any particular news this morning.
Sentence 18: I am sending up a message early next week on natural resources. . . .
Sentence 19: Q. Isn't it that conservation plan?
Sentence 20: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 21: Yes.
Sentence 22: Otherwise, I don't think there is anything at all.
Sentence 23: Q. Have you anything to say about this automobile strike situation as it developed overnight?
Sentence 24: THE PRESIDENT: I have no further news than what you already have.
Sentence 25: Of course I think that, in the interests of peace, there come moments when statements, conversations and headlines are not in order.
Sentence 26: (Laughter)
Sentence 27: Therefore, having no news I don't think I will say anything further.
Sentence 28: Q. Do you plan to intervene in the automobile strike?
Sentence 29: THE PRESIDENT: I think I have already answered the question.
Sentence 30: Q. Did you read Mr. John L. Lewis's statement?
Sentence 31: THE PRESIDENT: I have already answered the question.
Sentence 32: MR. EARLY:
Sentence 33: May that one sentence be directly quoted?
Sentence 34: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 35: Yes.
Sentence 36: [The President's answer, "Of course I think that, in the interests of peace, there come moments when statements, conversations and headlines are not in order," was read to the Press by the stenographer.]
Sentence 37: Q.
Sentence 38: That sentence may be quoted?
Sentence 39: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 40: Yes.
Sentence 41: Q.
Sentence 42: Will you see the British member of the Board of Trade tomorrow or today?
Sentence 43: THE PRESIDENT: No, Mr. Runciman is coming tomorrow.
Sentence 44: I think he is coming just after lunch and staying until Monday.
Sentence 45: Q. Mr. President, can you tell us anything about the possibility of building a Government auditorium here for such a day as last January twentieth?
Sentence 46: THE PRESIDENT: Quite aside from this last January twentieth there have been quite a number of occasions which have shown the need of a larger auditorium in Washington.
Sentence 47: Do you remember the party that had to have overflow meetings in Constitution Hall because there wasn't any place big enough to take care of all of them?
Sentence 48: We have talked about it for a long time.
Sentence 49: It is a very desirable thing for the Government to have one very large auditorium in Washington.
Sentence 50: On the other hand, it is a question of what comes first in the present condition of things.
Sentence 51: Take, for example, the Army.
Sentence 52: Today the Army is, I think, in twenty-two different buildings, most of them rented.
Sentence 53: Probably it is more important to house some of our people, Government workers, than it is to build an auditorium.
Sentence 54: If we had enough money to build both, I would be delighted to build both.
Sentence 55: I am working at the present time on a plan, which is all a part of the general planning idea, that lists the needs of the Government in the way of buildings in the District of Columbia.
Sentence 56: It is a more or less informal report that would be sent to the Appropriations Committee of both Houses, the thought being that it would plan to spend a certain amount of money each year for perhaps ten years.
Sentence 57: I think there have been plans of that kind before.
Sentence 58: It was on the basis of such a plan that the Triangle buildings were built.
Sentence 59: Now we have come to a point where we need new plans.
Sentence 60: Q. Would the expenditure of that money come out of the five million dollars for general public works?
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 62: Yes.
Sentence 63: Q. Is there anything in the TVA situation about which you care to comment?
Sentence 64: THE PRESIDENT: There isn't any news on that at all at the present time.
Sentence 65: That very informal committee is working on it and I will probably see them over the weekend or early next week.
Sentence 66: Q. There have been a good many rumors that Dr. Morgan [Dr. Arthur E. Morgan] is going to resign.
Sentence 67: THE PRESIDENT: I haven't heard anything except what I have read.
Sentence 68: Q. Wasn't there another committee appointed for the same thing?
Sentence 69: THE PRESIDENT: That went out of existence.
Sentence 70: Q. Did they ever report?
Sentence 71: THE PRESIDENT: Only informally.
Sentence 72: We were not ready at that time because it got through—it passed one House and not the other.
Sentence 73: Q.
Sentence 74: Can you tell us whether you will join or support any legislation seeking a change of practice of the Supreme Court with respect to legislation?
Sentence 75: THE PRESIDENT: That is a sort of "iffy" question.
Sentence 76: Q. I presume what you said about your program for public buildings supersedes everything that Secretary Ickes has said about it, the fact that it has been proposed as a Jefferson Memorial?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 77: It does and it doesn't.
Sentence 78: Of course the Jefferson Memorial is in a different category because there is a Joint Committee on that subject.
Sentence 79: I cannot very well do more than refer to the fact that that Joint Committee is still in session.
Sentence 80: Q. Mr. President, will you make public the correspondence between the Treasury and the I.C.C. on taxes, that passed through the White House?
Sentence 81: THE PRESIDENT: I cannot tell you yet.
Sentence 82: There is only one letter so far, so it cannot be called "correspondence.
Sentence 83: "
Q.
Sentence 84: The other is on its way?
Sentence 85: (Laughter)
Sentence 86: Q. Have you selected any date or personnel yet for that conference about the courts that Senator Minton talked about?
Sentence 87: THE PRESIDENT: There isn't any conference.
Sentence 88: Senator Minton is coming down to confer with me.
Sentence 89: The Attorney General will come down but I suppose he will come down with a lot of other Senators.
Sentence 90: MR. YOUNG: Thank you, Mr. President.
