Sentence 1: 1937 Excerpts From The Press Conference 94

Q. Is there anything that can be said about the stories appearing recently, particularly the last two days, in The New York Times this morning, about the possibility of adjustment in capital gains and surplus profits taxes?
Sentence 2: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 3: The only thing I can say about those stories is something rather interesting.
Sentence 4: If you will read them you won't find in any of the stories anything relating to changes in taxes—not a single reference—of that portion of the population which has very little money to live on.
Sentence 5: It is rather an interesting fact that as these stories come out of Washington, not one statement contains any reference to the very large section of our national population that doesn't have a decent standard of living.
Sentence 6: I have been rather struck by it of late.
Sentence 7: In other words, here's a national problem that apparently in these stories is only being viewed from one angle.
Sentence 8: Did you ever think of that?
Sentence 9: It's an interesting thing.
Sentence 10: Q. Is there any mention in any of these stories of the kind of taxes?
Sentence 11: They pay taxes on sales.
Sentence 12: The sales taxes that these very poor people pay?
THE PRESIDENT: Never, no mention of that ever.
Sentence 13: Never any mention of increasing the purchasing power among the thirty or forty millions of people who have today practically no purchasing power.
Sentence 14: I think very probably it is an interesting thing for you to use your imagination on and write interpretative stories.
Sentence 15: Q.
Sentence 16: [Mr. Trohan] I had much rather you would interpret it.
Sentence 17: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 18: No, it would be a very useful practice on the part of all of you.
Sentence 19: Q.
Sentence 20: [Mr. Trohan] I may be slow, Mr. President, but I don't find any significance in that.
Sentence 21: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 22: No, you are not slow at all.
Sentence 23: Q.
Sentence 24: Do you expect us to psychoanalyze ourselves in our papers?
Sentence 25: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 26: No, I am just thinking about the stories that Bob
Sentence 27: [Post] asked about.
Sentence 28: Q.
Sentence 29: They have no purchasing power and they pay no taxes?
Sentence 30: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 31: No, I didn't say that at all.
Sentence 32: Nobody ever said they paid no taxes.
Sentence 33: On the contrary, the suggestion was that they paid very large taxes.
Sentence 34: Why don't you dig up that report?
Sentence 35: Don't attribute this to me, for frankly, I don't know whether it is accurate or not, but in the report of the Filene Foundation you get the whole thing in one paragraph.
Sentence 36: It showed the taxes that are paid by the family with income of one thousand dollars a year, and then on up. . . .
Sentence 37: Q.
Sentence 38: Obviously these people who talk about it do not have capital gains.
Sentence 39: THE PRESIDENT: Very few of them.
Sentence 40: I know what you mean-you have to do some tall thinking.
Sentence 41: The point I emphasize is that in all these stories the point of view which is stated is not that of the people who have very little purchasing power or no purchasing power at all.
Sentence 42: There isn't a mention of the effect of changes in the tax law on the forty million people who are sub-standard so far as living goes.
Sentence 43: Isn't it an interesting fact that that isn't taken into consideration in these stories?
Sentence 44: Q. Isn't it true that a great many tax experts believe these changes wouldn't have any effect on these forty million people?
Sentence 45: THE PRESIDENT: I wouldn't know.
Sentence 46: After all, you have to have real method to run a government; you have to have a number of dollars.
Sentence 47: Where are they coming from?
Sentence 48: Q. Don't some of them think changes in these taxes will provide additional capital to give additional employment?
Sentence 49: THE PRESIDENT: Some do and some don't.
Sentence 50: Like those two letters I think I told you about the other day.
Sentence 51: They came in from two economic experts of the first water.
Sentence 52: One says the entire question is one of the velocity of capital turnover credit, so do not pay any attention to purchasing power.
Sentence 53: The other one says: forget all this algebraic formula about the velocity of capital turnover credit; the whole question is purchasing power on the part of one hundred and thirty million people.
Sentence 54: It is a fascinating study.
Sentence 55: Q.
Sentence 56: Do you mean that if they have to pay out beyond—[interruption]- that it goes into wages and dividends, which is then spent?
Sentence 57: If you take the distributed profits it goes into wages and dividends?
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 59: Your velocity says that it does.
Sentence 60: There is another thing, if you want to check up— I can't give you definite figures.
Sentence 61: I don't know whether I mentioned it the other day.
Sentence 62: The people of this country are getting about two and one-half billions of dollars less—you have to check up on these figures; Lubin has them.
Sentence 63: Don't write the story without checking.
Sentence 64: I haven't got them except very, very approximately.
Sentence 65: The only figure I have is the total figure.
Sentence 66: The national income, because of a change in government action in one year, has been decreased two and one-half billion dollars.
Sentence 67: That's an extraordinary thing unless you analyze it.
Sentence 68: There has been a billion and one-quarter less payment this year on the bonus, for instance.
Sentence 69: You will have to check on these figures, and I think they are public.
Sentence 70: There is a billion and a quarter less going out this fiscal year on the bonus.
Sentence 71: There is a billion dollars less going out on relief, nearly a billion. . . .
Sentence 72: Then there has also been a contribution of money by employers and employees that runs about three hundred and fifty or four hundred million, for social security.
Sentence 73: Of course, a layman would say that that contribution is being held in trust, a reserve fund, part of it, and part of it for payments.
Sentence 74: But quite a large portion of the total payment goes into a reserve fund which the Government invests in something.
Sentence 75: Now, typical of completely foggy thinking, the Hearst papers came out and said that this money was going into government bonds, that the government bonds have no assurance of being made good ultimately, and that the Government was taking the cash that these people were putting up, and was paying the ordinary running expenses of the Government with it.
Sentence 76: This, of course, isn't true.
Sentence 77: When you receive money for a trust fund you have to put it into something, obviously; and if you study the financing methods of the Social Security Board, you will see it is better to put those trust funds into Federal Government bonds than into stock exchange stocks and bonds.
Sentence 78: You have something which can always be made good if we have a government.
Sentence 79: It is all predicated on that.
Sentence 80: Now, the total of all these things, the bonus, the decrease in relief, decrease in public works, and the contributions to social security, mean about two and one-half billion dollars less than the figures of a year ago.
Sentence 81: Now, that is one of the contributing factors.
Sentence 82: Of course, business is supposed to be taking it up and they are taking up a portion of it, which, of course, you know.
Sentence 83: The national income has risen from thirty-eight or thirty-nine billions to—what was it this year?- sixty-five, and probably this coming year will go to seventy.
Sentence 84: And, of course, the aim is ninety or one hundred.
Sentence 85: When, the Lord only knows; but that is a perfectly sound goal to set up in a country which is going ahead in the increase of its wealth and the betterment of living standards.
Sentence 86: The wages and hours bill, of course, ties right into that; the crop control or surplus control bill ties right in, increasing the national income.
Sentence 87: Q.
Sentence 88: Do you have any ideas about the proposed tariff section of the wage and hour bill?
Sentence 89: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know.
Sentence 90: I haven't seen anything about it at all.
Sentence 91: Q.
Sentence 92: There was one in the beginning, of course, and someone said you ought not to put tariff in the wage bill.
Sentence 93: THE PRESIDENT: There was one perfectly impossible section which would mean a Chinese Wall around the country.
Sentence 94: The only thing to say about that is that the people who are for it have failed to realize you can't export unless you import.
Sentence 95: It is a perfectly obvious, simple, straight fact.
Sentence 96: You cannot export unless you import.
Sentence 97: In other words, people on the outside have no purchasing power, no method of paying for our goods. . . .
Sentence 98: That section you are talking about in that bill simply meant there would be kept out goods from every other nation in the world, with the net result that we wouldn't export our goods.
Sentence 99: Q. Defeat of the reciprocal trade treaty idea.
Sentence 100: THE PRESIDENT: Not only that, but defeat of foreign trade; in effect reestablishing in this country the old nonintercourse Act of 1807.
