Sentence 1: 1937 Christmas Greeting The Nation 4

Last night before I went to sleep I chanced to read in an evening paper a story by a columnist which appeals to me so much as a Christmas sermon that this afternoon, on the occasion of lighting the National Christmas Tree in Lafayette Square in front of the White House, I am going to read to you from it.
Sentence 2: Here is his parable:
Sentence 3: We were sitting in a high room above the chapel, and although it was Christmas Eve, my good friend the dominie seemed curiously troubled.
Sentence 4: And that was strange, for he was a man extremely sensitive to the festivities of his faith.
Sentence 5: The joys and sorrows of Jesus were not to him events of a remote past but more current and living happenings than the headlines in the newspapers.
Sentence 6: At Christmas he seems actually to hear the voice of the herald angels.
Sentence 7: My friend is an old man, and I have known him for many years, but this was the first time the Nativity had failed to rouse him to an ecstasy.
Sentence 8: He admitted that something was wrong.
Sentence 9: "Tomorrow," he said, "I must go down into that chapel and preach a Christmas sermon.
Sentence 10: And I must speak of peace and good will toward men.
Sentence 11: I know you think of me as a man too cloistered to be of any use to my community.
Sentence 12: And I know that our world is one of war and hate and enmity.
Sentence 13: "And you, my young friend, and others keep insisting that before there can be brotherhood there must be the bashing of heads.
Sentence 14: You are all for good will to men, but you want to note very many exceptions.
Sentence 15: And I am still hoping and praying that in the great love of God the final seal of interdiction must not be put on even one.
Sentence 16: You may laugh at me, but right now I am worrying about how Christmas came to Judas Iscariot.
Sentence 17: "
It is the habit of my friend when he is troubled by doubts to reach for the Book, and he did so now.
Sentence 18: He smiled and said, "Will you assist me in a little experiment?
Sentence 19: "
I will close my eyes and you hold out the Bible to me.
Sentence 20: I will open it at random and run my fingers down a page.
Sentence 21: You read me the text which I blindly select.
Sentence 22: "
I did as he told me, and he happened on the twenty-sixth chapter of St. Matthew and the twenty-fifth verse.
Sentence 23: I felt sorry for him, for this was no part of the story of the birth of Christ but instead an account of the great betrayal.
Sentence 24: "Read what it says," commanded the dominie.
Sentence 25: And I read, "Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, 'Master, is it I?'
Sentence 26: He ' said unto him, 'Thou hast said.'
Sentence 27: "
My friend frowned, but then he looked at me in triumph.
Sentence 28: "Now I remember.
Sentence 29: My hand is not as steady as it used to be.
Sentence 30: You should have taken the lower part of my finger and not the top.
Sentence 31: Read the twenty-seventh verse.
Sentence 32: It is not an eighth of an inch away.
Sentence 33: Read what it says.
Sentence 34: "
And I read, "And He took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, 'Drink ye all of it.'
Sentence 35: "
"Mark that!" cried the old man exultantly.
Sentence 36: "Not even to Judas, the betrayer, was the wine of life denied.
Sentence 37: I can preach my Christmas sermon now, and my text will be, 'Drink ye all of it.'
Sentence 38: Good will toward men means good will to every last son of God.
Sentence 39: Peace on earth means peace to Pilate, peace to the thieves on the cross and peace to poor Iscariot.
Sentence 40: "
I was glad, for he had found Christmas, and I saw by his face that once more he heard the voice of the herald angels.
