Sentence 1: 1938 Remarks Greenville South Carolina 0

Governor Johnston, my friends of Greenville:
Sentence 2: It is a long way around to come from Washington to South Carolina by way of the Pacific, the Galapagos Islands, the Equator, the Panama Canal and Pensacola, Florida.
Sentence 3: But I got here.
Sentence 4: As you people probably know, I have made two speeches today and there was not time nor opportunity to prepare a third speech.
Sentence 5: Some of you may have heard what I said down in Georgia, at Barnesville.
Sentence 6: Those of you who did not hear me, I hope will read in the newspapers what I said of some of the economic and social problems of the South and of the necessity of meeting those problems by a consolidation of the interests of all the southern states, and then by consolidating those interests with the interests of the whole Nation.
Sentence 7: That, my friends, cannot be done without legislation.
Sentence 8: As President, I cannot do it alone.
Sentence 9: The Congress of the United States must pass the laws.
Sentence 10: That is why, in any selection of candidates for members of the Senate or members of the House of Representatives—if you believe in the principles for which we are striving: a wider distribution of national income, better conservation of our natural resources, establishment of a floor under wages and the bringing of a larger buying power to the farmers of the Nation then I hope you will send representatives to the national legislature who will work toward those ends.
Sentence 11: We need not just teamwork but more teamwork in the National Capital—and I believe we are going to get it.
Sentence 12: Before I stop—and I believe the train is pulling out in a minute or two—I want to suggest two things to you.
Sentence 13: The first is that a long time ago I promised Governor Johnston that I would come down some time this year to visit the capital of the State of South Carolina.
Sentence 14: I have never been there
Sentence 15: but I am coming.
Sentence 16: The other thing is that I don't believe any family or man can live on fifty cents a day.
