Sentence 1: 1938 Fireside Chat 15

Five months have gone by since I last spoke to the people of the Nation about the state of the Nation.
Sentence 2: I had hoped to be able to defer this talk until next week because, as we all know, this is Holy Week.
Sentence 3: But what I want to say to you, the people of the country, is of such immediate need and relates so closely to the lives of human beings and the prevention of human suffering that I have felt that there should be no delay.
Sentence 4: In this decision I have been strengthened by the thought that by speaking tonight there may be greater peace of mind and the hope of Easter may be more real at firesides everywhere, and that it is not inappropriate to encourage peace when so many of us are thinking of the Prince of Peace.
Sentence 5: Five years ago we faced a very serious problem of economic and social recovery.
Sentence 6: For four and a half years that recovery proceeded apace.
Sentence 7: It is only in the past seven months that it has received a visible setback.
Sentence 8: And it is only within the past two months, as we have waited patiently to see whether the forces of business itself would counteract it, that it has become apparent that government itself can no longer safely fail to take aggressive government steps to meet it.
Sentence 9: This recession has not returned us to the disasters and suffering of the beginning of 1933.
Sentence 10: Your money in the bank is safe; farmers are no longer in deep distress and have greater purchasing power; dangers of security speculation have been minimized; national income is almost 50 per cent higher than in 1932; and government has an established and accepted responsibility for relief.
Sentence 11: But I know that many of you have lost your jobs or have seen your friends or members of your families lose their jobs, and I do not propose that the government shall pretend not to see these things.
Sentence 12: I know that the effect of our present difficulties has been uneven; that they have affected some groups and some localities seriously, but that they have been scarcely felt in others.
Sentence 13: But I conceive the first duty of government is to protect the economic welfare of all the people in all sections and in all groups.
Sentence 14: I said in my message opening the last session of Congress that if private enterprise did not provide jobs this spring, government would take up the slack—that I would not let the people down.
Sentence 15: We have all learned the lesson that government cannot afford to wait until it has lost the power to act.
Sentence 16: Therefore, I have sent a message of far-reaching importance to the Congress.
Sentence 17: I want to read to you tonight certain passages from that message, and to talk with you about them.
Sentence 18: In that message I analyzed the causes of the collapse of 1929 in these words: "overspeculation in and overproduction of practically every article or instrument used by man . . .
Sentence 19: millions of people had been put to work, but the products of their hands had exceeded the purchasing power of their pocketbooks. . .
Sentence 20: .Under the inexorable law of supply and demand, supplies so overran demand which would pay that production was compelled to stop.
Sentence 21: Unemployment and closed factories resulted.
Sentence 22: Hence the tragic years from 1929 to 1933.
Sentence 23: "
I pointed out to the Congress that the national income—not the Government's income, but the total of the income of all the individual citizens and families of the United States—every farmer, every worker, every banker, every professional man and every person who lived on income derived from investments that national income amounted, in the year 1929, to eighty-one billion dollars.
Sentence 24: By 1932 this had fallen to thirty-eight billion dollars.
Sentence 25: Gradually, and up to a few months ago, it had risen to a total of sixty-eight billion dollars—a pretty good come-back from the low point.
Sentence 26: I then said this to the Congress:
Sentence 27: "But the very vigor of the recovery in both durable goods and consumers' goods brought into the picture early in 1937 certain highly undesirable practices, which were in large part responsible for the economic decline which began in the later months of that year.
Sentence 28: Again production outran the ability to buy.
Sentence 29: "There were many reasons for this overproduction.
Sentence 30: One was fear—fear of war abroad, fear of inflation, fear of nationwide strikes.
Sentence 31: None of these fears has been borne out.
Sentence 32: ". . .
Sentence 33: Production in many important lines of goods outran the ability of the public to purchase them.
Sentence 34: For example, through the winter and spring of 1937 cotton factories in hundreds of cases were running on a three-shift basis, piling up cotton goods in the factory and in the hands of middle men and retailers.
Sentence 35: For example, also, automobile manufacturers not only turned out a normal increase of finished cars, but encouraged the normal increase to run into abnormal figures, using every known method to push their sales.
Sentence 36: This meant, of course, that the steel mills of the Nation ran on a twenty-four hour basis, and the tire companies and cotton factories speeded up to meet the same type of abnormally stimulated demand.
Sentence 37: The buying power of the Nation lagged behind.
Sentence 38: "Thus by the autumn of 1937 the Nation again had stocks on hand which the consuming public could not buy because the purchasing power of the consuming public had not kept pace with the production.
Sentence 39: "During the same period the prices of many vital products had risen faster than was warranted. . . .
Sentence 40: In the case of many commodities the price to the consumer was raised well above the inflationary boom prices of 1929.
Sentence 41: In many lines of goods and materials, prices got so high that buyers and builders ceased to buy or to build.
". . .
Sentence 42: The economic process of getting out the raw materials, putting them through the manufacturing and finishing processes, selling them to the retailers, selling them to the consumer, and finally using them got completely out of balance.
Sentence 43: "...
Sentence 44: The laying off of workers came upon us last autumn and has been continuing at such a pace ever since that all of us, Government and banking and business and workers, and those faced with destitution, recognize the need for action.
Sentence 45: "
All of this I said to the Congress today and I repeat it to you, the people of the country tonight.
Sentence 46: I went on to point out to the Senate and the House of Representatives that all the energies of government and business must be directed to increasing the national income, to putting more people into private jobs, to giving security and a feeling of security to all people in all walks of life.
Sentence 47: I am constantly thinking of all our people—unemployed and employed alike- of their human problems of food and clothing and homes and education and health and old age.
Sentence 48: You and I agree that security is our greatest need; the chance to work, the opportunity of making a reasonable profit in our business-whether it be a very small business or a larger one—the possibility of selling our farm products for enough money for our families to live on decently.
Sentence 49: I know these are the things that decide the well-being of all our people.
Sentence 50: Therefore, I am determined to do all in my power to help you attain that security, and because I know that the people themselves have a deep conviction that secure prosperity of that kind cannot be a lasting one except on a basis of business fair dealing and a basis where all from top to bottom share in prosperity, I repeated to the Congress today that neither it nor the Chief Executive can afford "to weaken or destroy great reforms which, during the past five years, have been effected on behalf of the American people.
Sentence 51: In our rehabilitation of the banking structure and of agriculture, in our provisions for adequate and cheaper credit for all types of business, in our acceptance of national responsibility for unemployment relief, in our strengthening of the credit of state and local government, in our encouragement of housing, slum clearance and home ownership, in our supervision of stock exchanges and public utility holding companies and the issuance of new securities, in our provision for social security, the electorate of America wants no backward steps taken.
Sentence 52: "We have recognized the right of labor to free organization, to collective bargaining; and machinery for the handling of labor relations is now in existence.
Sentence 53: The principles are established even though we can all admit that, through the evolution of time, administration and practices can be improved.
Sentence 54: Such improvement can come about most quickly and most peacefully through sincere efforts to understand and assist on the part of labor leaders and employers alike.
Sentence 55: "The never-ceasing evolution of human society will doubtless bring forth new problems which will require new adjustments.
Sentence 56: Our immediate task is to consolidate and maintain the gains achieved.
Sentence 57: "In this situation there is no reason and no occasion for any American to allow his fears to be aroused or his energy and enterprise to be paralyzed by doubt or uncertainty.
Sentence 58: "
I came to the conclusion that the present-day problem calls for action both by the Government and by the people, that we suffer primarily from a failure of consumer demand because of lack of buying power.
Sentence 59: It is up to us to create an economic upturn.
Sentence 60: "How and where can and should the Government help to start an upward spiral?
Sentence 61: "
I went on to propose three groups of measures and I will summarize the recommendations.
Sentence 62: First, I asked for certain appropriations which are intended to keep the Government expenditures for work relief and similar purposes during the coming fiscal year at the same rate of expenditure as at present.
Sentence 63: That includes additional money for the Works Progress Administration; additional funds for the Farm Security Administration; additional allotments for the National Youth Administration, and more money for the Civilian Conservation Corps, in order that it can maintain the existing number of camps now in operation.
Sentence 64: These appropriations, made necessary by increased unemployment, will cost about a billion and a quarter more than the estimates which I sent to the Congress on the third of January.
Sentence 65: Second, I told the Congress that the Administration proposes to make additional bank reserves available for the credit needs of the country.
Sentence 66: About one billion four hundred million dollars of gold now in the Treasury will be used to pay these additional expenses of the Government, and three-quarters of a billion dollars of additional credit will be made available to the banks by reducing the reserves now required by the Federal Reserve Board.
Sentence 67: These two steps, taking care of relief needs and adding to bank credits, are in our judgment insufficient by themselves to start the Nation on a sustained upward movement.
Sentence 68: Therefore, I came to the third kind of Government action which I consider to be vital.
Sentence 69: I said to the Congress:
"You and I cannot afford to equip ourselves with two rounds of ammunition where three rounds are necessary.
Sentence 70: If we stop at relief and credit, we may find ourselves without ammunition before the enemy is routed.
Sentence 71: If we are fully equipped with the third round of ammunition, we stand to win the battle against adversity.
Sentence 72: "
The third proposal is to make definite additions to the purchasing power of the Nation by providing new work over and above the continuing of the old work.
Sentence 73: First, to enable the United States Housing Authority to undertake the immediate construction of about three hundred million dollars of additional slum clearance projects.
Sentence 74: Second, to renew a public works program by starting as quickly as possible about one billion dollars worth of needed permanent public improvements in states, counties and cities.
Sentence 75: Third, to add one hundred million dollars to the estimate for federal aid highways in excess of the amount I recommended in January.
Sentence 76: Fourth, to add thirty-seven million dollars over and above the former estimate of sixty-three million dollars for flood control and reclamation.
Sentence 77: Fifth, to add twenty-five million dollars additional for federal buildings in various parts of the country.
Sentence 78: In recommending this program I am thinking not only of the immediate economic needs of the people of the Nation, but also of their personal liberties—the most precious possession of all Americans.
Sentence 79: I am thinking of our democracy and of the recent trend in other parts of the world away from the democratic ideal.
Sentence 80: Democracy has disappeared in several other great nations-not because the people of those nations disliked democracy, but because they had grown tired of unemployment and insecurity, of seeing their children hungry while they sat helpless in the face of government confusion and government weakness through lack of leadership in government.
Sentence 81: Finally, in desperation, they chose to sacrifice liberty in the hope of getting something to eat.
Sentence 82: We in America know that our own democratic institutions can be preserved and made to work.
Sentence 83: But in order to preserve them we need to act together, to meet the problems of the Nation boldly, and to prove that the practical operation of democratic government is equal to the task of protecting the security of the people.
Sentence 84: Not only our future economic soundness but the very soundness of our democratic institutions depends on the determination of our Government to give employment to idle men.
Sentence 85: The people of America are in agreement in defending their liberties at any cost, and the first line of that defense lies in the protection of economic security.
Sentence 86: Your Government, seeking to protect democracy, must prove that Government is stronger than the forces of business depression.
Sentence 87: History proves that dictatorships do not grow out of strong and successful governments, but out of weak and helpless ones.
Sentence 88: If by democratic methods people get a government strong enough to protect them from fear and starvation, their democracy succeeds; but if they do not, they grow impatient.
Sentence 89: Therefore, the only sure bulwark of continuing liberty is a government strong enough to protect the interests of the people, and a people strong enough and well enough informed to maintain its sovereign control over its government.
Sentence 90: We are a rich Nation; we can afford to pay for security and prosperity without having to sacrifice our liberties in the bargain.
Sentence 91: In the first century of our republic we were short of capital, short of workers and short of industrial production; but we were rich in free land, free timber and free mineral wealth.
Sentence 92: The Federal Government rightly assumed the duty of promoting business and relieving depression by giving subsidies of land and other resources.
Sentence 93: Thus, from our earliest days we have had a tradition of substantial government help to our system of private enterprise.
Sentence 94: But today the government no longer has vast tracts of rich land to give away and we have discovered that we must spend large sums to conserve our land from further erosion and our forests from further depletion.
Sentence 95: The situation is also very different from the old days, because now we have plenty of capital, banks and insurance companies loaded with idle money; plenty of industrial productive capacity and several millions of workers looking for jobs.
Sentence 96: It is following tradition as well as necessity, if Government strives to put idle money and idle men to work, to increase our public wealth and to build up the health and strength of the people—and to help our system of private enterprise to function.
Sentence 97: It is going to cost Something to get out of this recession this way, but the profit of getting out of it will pay for the cost several times over.
Sentence 98: Lost working time is lost money.
Sentence 99: Every day that a workman is unemployed, or a machine is unused, or a business organization is marking time, is a loss to the Nation.
Sentence 100: Because of idle men and idle machines this Nation lost one hundred billion dollars between 1929 and the spring of 1933.
Sentence 101: This year you, the people of this country, are making about twelve billion dollars less than last year.
Sentence 102: If you think back to the experiences of the early years of this Administration you will remember the doubts and fears expressed about the rising expenses of Government.
Sentence 103: But to the surprise of the doubters, as we proceeded to carry on the program which included Public Works and Work Relief, the country grew richer instead of poorer.
Sentence 104: It is worthwhile to remember that the annual national people's income was thirty billion dollars more in 1937 than in 1932.
Sentence 105: It is true that the national debt increased sixteen billion dollars, but remember that in this increase must be included several billion dollars worth of assets which eventually will reduce that debt and that many billion dollars of permanent public improvements—schools, roads, bridges, tunnels, public buildings, parks and a host of other things—meet your eye in every one of the thirty one hundred counties in the United States.
Sentence 106: No doubt you will be told that the Government spending program of the past five years did not cause the increase in our national income.
Sentence 107: They will tell you that business revived because of private spending and investment.
Sentence 108: That is true in part, for the Government spent only a small part of the total.
Sentence 109: But Government spending acted as a trigger to set off private activity.
Sentence 110: That is why the total addition to our national production and national income has been so much greater than the contribution of the Government itself.
Sentence 111: In pursuance of that thought I said to the Congress today: "I want to make it clear that we do not believe that we can get an adequate rise in national income merely by investing, lending or spending public funds.
Sentence 112: It is essential in our economy that private funds be put to work and all of us recognize that such funds are entitled to a fair profit."
Sentence 113: As national income rises, "let us not forget that Government expenditures will go down and Government tax receipts will go up.
Sentence 114: "
The Government contribution of land that we once made to business was the land of all the people.
Sentence 115: And the Government contribution of money which we now make to business ultimately comes out of the labor of all the people.
Sentence 116: It is, therefore, only sound morality, as well as a sound distribution of buying power, that the benefits of the prosperity coming from this use of the money of all the people should be distributed among all the people- at the bottom as well as at the top.
Sentence 117: Consequently I am again expressing my hope that the Congress will enact at this session a wage and hour bill putting a floor under industrial wages and a limit on working hours—to ensure a better distribution of our prosperity, a better distribution of available work, and a sounder distribution of buying power.
Sentence 118: You may get all kinds of impressions in regard to the total cost of this new program, or in regard to the amount that will be added to the net national debt.
Sentence 119: It is a big program.
Sentence 120: Last autumn in a sincere effort to bring Government expenditures and Government income into closer balance, the Budget I worked out called for sharp decreases in Government spending.
Sentence 121: In the light of present conditions those estimates were far too low.
Sentence 122: This new program adds two billion and sixty-two million dollars to direct Treasury expenditures and another nine hundred and fifty million dollars to Government loans—and the latter sum, because they are loans, will come back to the Treasury in the future.
Sentence 123: The net effect on the debt of the Government is this: between now and July 1, 1939—fifteen months away—the Treasury will have to raise less than a billion and a half dollars of new money.
Sentence 124: Such an addition to the net debt of the United States need not give concern to any citizen, for it will return to the people of the United States many times over in increased buying power and eventually in much greater Government tax receipts because of the increase in the citizen income.
Sentence 125: What I said to the Congress in the close of my message I repeat to you.
Sentence 126: "Let us unanimously recognize the fact that the Federal debt, whether it be twenty-five billions or forty billions, can only be paid if the Nation obtains a vastly increased citizen income.
Sentence 127: I repeat that if this citizen income can be raised to eighty billion dollars a year the national Government and the overwhelming majority of State and local governments will be 'out of the red.'
Sentence 128: The higher the national income goes the faster shall we be able to reduce the total of Federal and state and local debts.
Sentence 129: Viewed from every angle, today's purchasing power—the citizens' income of today—is not sufficient to drive the economic system at higher speed.
Sentence 130: Responsibility of Government requires us at this time to supplement the normal processes and in so supplementing them to make sure that the addition is adequate.
Sentence 131: We must start again on a long steady upward incline in national income.
Sentence 132: ". . .
Sentence 133: And in that process, which I believe is ready to start, let us avoid the pitfalls of the past—the overproduction, the overspeculation, and indeed all the extremes which we did not succeed in avoiding in 1929.
Sentence 134: In all of this, Government cannot and should not act alone.
Sentence 135: Business must help.
Sentence 136: I am sure business will help.
Sentence 137: "We need more than the materials of recovery.
Sentence 138: We need a united national will.
Sentence 139: "We need to recognize nationally that the demands of no group, however just, can be satisfied unless that group is prepared to share in finding a way to produce the income from which it and all other groups can be paid. . . .
Sentence 140: You, as the Congress, I, as the President, must, by virtue of our offices, seek the national good by preserving the balance between all groups and all sections.
Sentence 141: "We have at our disposal the national resources, the money, the skill of hand and head to raise our economic level—our citizens' income.
Sentence 142: Our capacity is limited only by our ability to work together.
Sentence 143: What is needed is the will.
Sentence 144: "The time has come to bring that will into action with every driving force at our command.
Sentence 145: And I am determined to do my share.
Sentence 146: ". . .
Sentence 147: Certain positive requirements seem to me to accompany the will- if we have that will.
Sentence 148: "There is placed on all of us the duty of self-restraint. . . .
Sentence 149: That is the discipline of a democracy.
Sentence 150: Every patriotic citizen must say to himself or herself, that immoderate statement, appeals to prejudice, the creation of unkindness, are offenses not against an individual or individuals, but offenses against the whole population of the United States. . . .
Sentence 151: "Self-restraint implies restraint by articulate public opinion, trained to distinguish fact from falsehood, trained to believe that bitterness is never a useful instrument in public affairs.
Sentence 152: There can be no dictatorship by an individual or by a group in this Nation, save through division fostered by hate.
Sentence 153: Such division there must never be.
Sentence 154: "Finally I should like to say a personal word to you.
Sentence 155: I never forget that I live in a house owned by all the American people and that I have been given their trust.
Sentence 156: I try always to remember that their deepest problems are human.
Sentence 157: I constantly talk with those who come to tell me their own points of view; with those who manage the great industries and financial institutions of the country; with those who represent the farmer and the worker; and often with average citizens without high position who come to this house.
Sentence 158: And constantly I seek to look beyond the doors of the White House, beyond the officialdom of the National Capital, into the hopes and fears of men and women in their homes.
Sentence 159: I have traveled the country over many times.
Sentence 160: My friends, my enemies, my daily mail, bring to me reports of what you are thinking and hoping.
Sentence 161: I want to be sure that neither battles nor burdens of office shall ever blind me to an intimate knowledge of the way the American people want to live and the simple purposes for which they put me here.
Sentence 162: In these great problems of government I try not to forget that what really counts at the bottom of it all, is that the men and Women willing to work can have a decent job to take care of themselves and their homes and their children adequately; that the farmer, the factory worker, the storekeeper, the gas station man, the manufacturer, the merchant—big and small—the banker who takes pride in the help he gives to the building of his community, that all these can be sure of a reasonable profit and safety for the savings they earn—not today nor tomorrow alone, but as far ahead as they can see.
Sentence 163: I can hear your unspoken wonder as to where we are headed in this troubled world.
Sentence 164: I cannot expect all of the people to understand all of the people's problems; but it is my job to try to understand those problems.
Sentence 165: I always try to remember that reconciling differences cannot satisfy everyone completely.
Sentence 166: Because I do not expect too much, I am not disappointed.
Sentence 167: But I know that I must never give up-that I must never let the greater interest of all the people down, merely because that might be for the moment the easiest personal way out.
Sentence 168: I believe we have been right in the course we have charted.
Sentence 169: To abandon our purpose of building a greater, a more stable and a more tolerant America, would be to miss the tide and perhaps to miss the port.
Sentence 170: I propose to sail ahead.
Sentence 171: I feel sure that your hopes and your help are with me.
Sentence 172: For to reach a port, we must sail—sail, not tie at anchor—sail, not drift.
