Sentence 1: 1938 Press Conference 17

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: Well, having talked to the bankers [referring to Budget Press Conference] for the last hour, I am glad to welcome the medical profession.
Sentence 3: I don't think there is any particular news.
Sentence 4: Q. Mr. President, in Detroit today the Hudson Motor Car Company announced a new small automobile to compete with Chevrolet and Ford.
Sentence 5: They announced also that they would put six thousand men to work in a few weeks in addition to the six thousand men already at work, that they were going to spend eleven million dollars, and that their payroll would be increased by over a million dollars more than it is.
Sentence 6: The news is rather good for this season, and I was wondering if you would care to comment.
Sentence 7: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 8: Excellent, excellent, perfectly fine.
Sentence 9: I wish we had more of it.
Sentence 10: That reminds me—I will tell you a story.
Sentence 11: Last August, the last week of August, I was in a little village, and I happened to know the fellow who runs the garage, and who is also the agent for one of the larger automobile companies.
Sentence 12: We used to play on the same ball team together.
Sentence 13: I said, "Bill, how are you getting on?"
Sentence 14: He said, "I am getting on too well.
Sentence 15: "I said, "What do you mean?"
Sentence 16: He said, "It is this way: You know, people in this vicinity to whom we cater, own a total of about one hundred automobiles—pleasure cars—which they use.
Sentence 17: Well, these people are not rich and they do not get a new car every year.
Sentence 18: They get their cars every three years or four years or five years or six years.
Sentence 19: I figure the average turnover is about one car-one new car—every three years, perhaps a little bit more.
Sentence 20: I figure they ought to buy about thirty new cars every year."
Sentence 21: Then he said, "This year, in this community, they have bought sixty-two new cars.
Sentence 22: Well, I have sold a lot of them myself.
Sentence 23: I have sold over half of them myself.
Sentence 24: I had no right to and they had no business buying sixty-two new cars.
Sentence 25: That means that next year I am going to have an awful year.
Sentence 26: Sixty-two families out of a hundred have new cars, and I don't think next year I will sell more than ten or fifteen cars.
Sentence 27: That is why I say I am doing much too well.
Sentence 28: "
I just use this by way of example of one of the evils I mentioned yesterday in my message to the Congress.
Sentence 29: I said, "How do you account for it?"
Sentence 30: He said, "There are two reasons: The first is that all of us fellows who sell cars have been pushed to sell more cars, and we have been told to hand out a line of talk.
Sentence 31: "
I said, "What kind?"
Sentence 32: He said, "We have been handing out a line of talk that next year the cost of an automobile will go up a hundred dollars, that you had better buy one now, that next year it will cost a hundred dollars more.
Sentence 33: You have no idea how that word has been spread out in this country: 'Buy now or you will have to pay more next year.'
Sentence 34: A lot of people bought on that statement who would not have bought otherwise.
Sentence 35: Another reason is that they did something I thought was awfully foolish.
Sentence 36: We have been selling cars on an 18-months' paying basis, and they told us that we should adopt a new policy of selling on a 24-months' paying basis.
Sentence 37: Well, what does that mean?
Sentence 38: I used to go and say, 'Buy a new car and pay for it at forty dollars a month.'
Sentence 39: I can now go to them and say, 'You can get a new car for thirty dollars a month and pay for it in twenty four months instead of eighteen months.'
Sentence 40: They say, 'That is pretty good; I guess I will buy.'"
Sentence 41: In other words, they have been budgeting cars too fast.
Sentence 42: That is one illustration.
Sentence 43: Another one is this: I said to a very large steel manufacturer the other day, "How is it that you suddenly dropped from 90 per cent to around 28 per cent?. . . .
Sentence 44: Oh," he said, "a lot of factors entered into it.
Sentence 45: One was automobile steel.
Sentence 46: Then there was another curious thing that happened: The railroads in the country last spring suddenly came to us and gave us orders for all the steel rails that they needed for a full year and they said, 'We want them now.'
Sentence 47: So all through the summer we were working seven days a week, turning out steel rails, to fill these orders, and they got all their steel rails in the course of the summer months.
Sentence 48: Now they do not need, or want, any more for another nine months.
Sentence 49: "
I said, "What do you think of it?"
Sentence 50: He said, "I call it highly unintelligent.
Sentence 51: "
That is another illustration.
Sentence 52: Q. Is that another parable?
Sentence 53: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 54: No, it is a straight story actual illustrations.
Sentence 55: Q. Stories about sixty-two families?
Sentence 56: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 57: Oh, no; it has nothing to do with individual people.
Sentence 58: It was just an unintelligent way of handling business; and it is so admitted by the people today who were responsible for it.
Sentence 59: Now, we want to help them so they won't do that sort of thing in the future.
Sentence 60: If there is any way in which the Government can help, we will help.
Sentence 61: Q. Why did the railroads want the rails right away?
Sentence 62: THE PRESIDENT: Because they thought the price of rails might go up.
Sentence 63: I think that was the chief reason.
Sentence 64: Q. Would you say it is a good business idea for a firm at this time to expand as this firm is doing?
Sentence 65: THE PRESIDENT: I don't think I can go into that because this, after all, is a selling campaign.
Sentence 66: If we can put men to work building cheap cars for the people of this country, that would be pretty good, with emphasis on the word "cheap.
Sentence 67: "
Q. How can the Government do anything to prevent this type of unintelligent business operation?
Sentence 68: Can you give us any idea of how you would go about it, what can be done?
Sentence 69: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 70: Oh, yes; I think so.
Sentence 71: Let us take an example: Don't write the story that I am advocating the immediate reenactment of NRA.
Sentence 72: But the fact remains that in quite a number of the code industries under NRA it was perfectly legal for the heads of all the companies in a given industry to sit down around a table with the Government, and, from their own statistics and the statistics of their own trade associations and the statistics given them by the Government, figure out much more clearly than they ever had before, as an industry, what the probable demand of the country would be for a period of six months or a year ahead.
Sentence 73: In other words, they could make a more intelligent group estimate as to the purchasing power of the country and the inventories of the particular article necessary for the immediate future.
Sentence 74: Now, done that way, it is a perfectly legitimate thing for them to do—sitting there, with the Government, and trying honestly to find out what the needs are going to be for the next six months or a year, so that they won't overproduce.
Sentence 75: It is legitimate just so long as it is done without any attempts at price-fixing or driving competitors out of business or things like that as a result of the conference.
Sentence 76: There is a question today whether a meeting of that kind, around a table, is legal under the anti-trust laws.
Sentence 77: A lot of people are afraid of it.
Sentence 78: I would very much favor making it a completely legal thing to do: to meet around a table to find out, with the help of the Government, what the demands are, what the purchasing power of the country is, what the inventories are.
Sentence 79: Q. How would the estimated annual production be allocated among the units of the industry?
Sentence 80: THE PRESIDENT: Don't do that—keep competition. . .
Sentence 81: .
Sentence 82: Q.
Sentence 83: In your message yesterday, you mentioned the need for responsibility on the part of labor organizations which should grow commensurately with their own power.
Sentence 84: I wonder if you think there is a need for further responsibility on the part of labor unions at the present time?
Sentence 85: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 86: Yes—I think it is growing too.
Sentence 87: For example, among labor unions there has been a distinct increase in willingness to make public their accounts of receipts and disbursements.
Sentence 88: Isn't it the Garment Workers Union in New York that makes public its receipts and disbursements?
Sentence 89: Q. Yes, sir.
Sentence 90: THE PRESIDENT: That is a growing tendency, and it is a good thing.
Sentence 91: Q.
Sentence 92: I think his question referred to the need and your answer implied—
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 93: Oh, no; I meant there was a growing assumption of responsibility.
Sentence 94: Q.
Sentence 95: You said it was a good thing that this trend is now evident.
Sentence 96: Could you explain that a little further?
Sentence 97: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 98: The trouble is when you come down to specific things.
Sentence 99: I suppose the easiest way of putting it is this: In England there is a great deal more responsibility on the part of labor unions than there is here.
Sentence 100: They went through the growing pains there that we are going through here now; they went through them ten or fifteen years ago; and we are now heading in the same direction that they have been going.
Sentence 101: Q.
Sentence 102: There is an idea that has been growing among some members on the Hill—an idea of having labor unions made responsible by legislation, responsible for their contracts, mutually responsible with employers.
Sentence 103: THE PRESIDENT: It is difficult to answer that specifically.
Sentence 104: All we can point out is a series of cases where we have to devise ways and means to prevent them from going on in the same way.
Sentence 105: Just for example, .there is a very difficult situation at the present time out in Portland, Oregon, where they have those lumber mills where they saw up the logs.
Sentence 106: A good many years ago they organized a union among the workers in those mills which became an affiliate of the A.F. of L. and which was placed under the jurisdiction of Hutcheson of the Carpenters Union.
Sentence 107: Later on, the C.I.O. went into the same plants and organized.
Sentence 108: As I remember it, the Federal Government held an election there, and the C.I.O. organization won a majority, whereupon the minority refused to accept, pulled out the teamsters, and tied up everything "tighter than a drum."
Sentence 109: Later on the Governor of Oregon held another election.
Sentence 110: He thought it would go the other way.
Sentence 111: It didn't.
Sentence 112: They still went C.I.O. by a bigger majority.
Sentence 113: The entire works were still tied up.
Sentence 114: That would seem to be a local situation, but it isn't.
Sentence 115: It extends back to the East Coast.
Sentence 116: The carpenters on the East Coast are told that they cannot build a house out of red wood that is shipped out of Portland, Oregon.
Sentence 117: That is a pretty impossible situation, to tie up building construction in the East because there is a jurisdictional fight in the West.
Sentence 118: That happened to be between the A.F of L. and the C.I.O.
Sentence 119: You get the same thing in building trades.
Sentence 120: You want to put a garbage chute into a new apartment house or a dumbwaiter chute, and one particular union might start to go ahead with it when the elevator shaft men would say, "No, that is an elevator shaft," and then the whole building is tied up.
Sentence 121: That is the kind of thing I was referring to.
Sentence 122: We need definite improvement to end jurisdictional disputes.
Sentence 123: Q. Do you expect to get it done with Federal legislation?
Sentence 124: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know.
Sentence 125: Q.
Sentence 126: Do you think it should be done with Federal legislation?
Sentence 127: THE PRESIDENT: I think the first thing is to give them a chance to do it themselves, the same way we gave capital a chance to cure some of its ills; do it, so far as possible, without legislation.
Sentence 128: Q. Does that imply that if capital does not do it that legislation may be had?
Sentence 129: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 130: If neither side cures its ills, something will have to be done.
