Sentence 1: 1938 Excerpts From The Press Conference 98

Q. You look snappy this morning.
Sentence 2: [Referring to the President's new suit.]
Sentence 3: THE PRESIDENT: I am not feeling snappy.
Sentence 4: I sat up last night hearing the European side of things from Ambassador Bullitt.
Sentence 5: I am not going up to Hyde Park until Sunday noon because I cannot get all the work straightened out until then. . .
Sentence 6: .
Sentence 7: Q. Have you heard of the progress of the work on the Gravelly Point Airport?
Sentence 8: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 9: Somebody told me yesterday that they hoped to get the first dirt flying in about ten days
Sentence 10: and I said that when I got back, a week from Monday, I shall drive down with the Commission and look it over.
Sentence 11: Nothing formal.
Sentence 12: Q. Did anybody tell you it will take two years instead of one?
Sentence 13: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know.
Sentence 14: Q.
Sentence 15: Your driving down there will inaugurate the work?
Sentence 16: THE PRESIDENT: No speech or anything like that.
Sentence 17: Q.
Sentence 18: They wanted you to run a steam shovel.
Sentence 19: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 20: No, just drive around.
Sentence 21: Q. At the last Conference you told us you might have something to say on the budget at this one.
Sentence 22: Any comment you can make?
THE PRESIDENT: The only comment is that I cannot make any comment, for the reason that new developments in national defense require such a complete restudy of American national defense that it will defer, necessarily, any budget comments for some time.
Sentence 23: Q. Mr. Baruch, when he left yesterday, said that it was his opinion that the Army was lacking in modern equipment.
Sentence 24: He said that there is definitely not a first-class organization because of lack of what he termed, "modern arms."
Sentence 25: Do you propose, Mr. President, to ask for additional funds to supply the Army with—
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 26: [interposing] In the first place, I did not read Mr. Baruch's statement, except the headline, so I cannot comment on that, but there are a good many people, not just Mr. Baruch but a good many others, who are very carefully checking up on certain new elements in defense preparedness that have gradually been coming in for the past three or four years, elements that relate, just for example, to the problem of mass production, which we have never yet adequately considered.
Sentence 27: They are new things, and therefore they require a good deal of study.
Sentence 28: Q.
Sentence 29: That mass production, does that include airplanes?
Sentence 30: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 31: Yes, and other things, too.
Sentence 32: Q. Have you taken any definite steps toward standardization of certain weapons and plane manufactures, also with the idea of preparing for mass production?
Sentence 33: I understand there are several branches where standardization is needed, or some people studying it think it is needed, to set up mass production.
Sentence 34: THE PRESIDENT: You have answered your own question.
Sentence 35: The words, "mass production" necessarily mean "standardization."
Sentence 36: You cannot have mass production unless you have standardization.
Sentence 37: Q. Has your product reached a point of development where you feel you can standardize?
Sentence 38: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 39: Other nations are doing it.
Sentence 40: Q. Is any centralized or interdepartmental body studying this?
Sentence 41: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 42: No, I am doing it.
Sentence 43: Q. Is that study being conducted with civilian advice?
Sentence 44: THE PRESIDENT: Every known kind.
Sentence 45: Q. Is it the intent to create an organization similar to the wartime War Industries Board?
Sentence 46: THE PRESIDENT: No, this has nothing to do with machinery for running it.
Sentence 47: It is a question of national defense.
Sentence 48: Q. Is it contemplated to materially increase the size of the Army?
Sentence 49: THE PRESIDENT: I cannot give you anything on that, because then you get down to a kind of merely partial report.
Sentence 50: We are then only taking up one small phase.
Sentence 51: If you ask me, "Are you going to have two more submarines?"
Sentence 52: or, "Are you going to give up the cavalry?"
Sentence 53: or, "Are you doing one thing or the other?"
Sentence 54: it becomes a very difficult matter because it takes away the whole rounded picture.
Sentence 55: What I want to do is to give to the country a complete picture, when we are ready, rather than in comparatively minor detail.
Sentence 56: For instance, talking off the record, talking about $150,000,000 for two new battleships, of course you people had to write something.
Sentence 57: It was not a new story, really, because the authorizations had been made last year.
Sentence 58: Obviously they had to go in.
Sentence 59: But I don't want to confuse the public by talking about items of that kind.
Sentence 60: I am thinking in general terms of national defense.
Sentence 61: Q. Does the power study enter into it?
Sentence 62: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 63: Yes.
Sentence 64: Q.
Sentence 65: Do you contemplate creating a unified Department of Defense?
Sentence 66: THE PRESIDENT: That is a pure detail of later administration.
Sentence 67: What I am doing now is studying a plan to meet needs under rather new world conditions.
Sentence 68: Q.
Sentence 69: When will the plans be ready?
Sentence 70: Can you tell us the time?
Sentence 71: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 72: By the third of January.
Sentence 73: Q.
Sentence 74: Can you throw any light on the reason which led to this decision to reorganize the whole national defense picture?
Sentence 75: THE PRESIDENT: I should say, offhand, that it started about a year ago because of information that was coming in at that time.
Sentence 76: It has been in progress for about a year and it has, in a sense, been forced to a head by events, developments and information received within the past month.
Sentence 77: Q. Will you say, are you referring to technical or political matters?
Sentence 78: THE PRESIDENT: Defense matters, not political.
Sentence 79: Q.
Sentence 80: I mean information that is coming in, is it technical?
Sentence 81: THE PRESIDENT: Yes, technical.
Q.
Sentence 82: Any comment on the statement made yesterday by Groesbeck, of the Electric Bond and Share, in which he pledged cooperation to the Holding Company Act?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 83: I asked some information on it yesterday afternoon, supposing that the question would be asked.
Sentence 84: It is fairly long, and I shall try to touch the high spots.
Sentence 85: I am, of course, very glad to read the statement made by Mr. Groesbeck at his stockholders' meeting, I think it was.
Sentence 86: In trying to evaluate it, I think we can say that the announcement illustrates exactly what I meant in the past when I urged cooperation between business and government in concrete, and not in abstract terms; in other words, not merely by lip service but by getting down to brass tacks.
Sentence 87: Secondly, it ought to be clear that the term, "death sentence," which was invented, not by the Government or by the Press but by the utility propagandists, three years and a half ago — that is a matter of record — that that term brought more harm than good to the utilities.
Sentence 88: We are now going to have the opportunity to prove what we have always contended go back and read the debates in the hearings that that Section 11 in the Utility Act was not a death sentence but should properly have been called a "health sentence.
Sentence 89: "
Q. Did you call it a "life sentence"?
Sentence 90: THE PRESIDENT: Health sentence.
Sentence 91: That, apparently, is being recognized by the owners of public utility securities.
Sentence 92: They are beginning to think that their securities are worth more money now that certain officers of the utilities have given up the old term.
Sentence 93: Next, since Mr. Groesbeck is a good business man, the prospect is that private business will be helped by his action in sitting down with a business-minded commission to work things out in a businesslike way; and we hope that other companies will come in.
Sentence 94: His views will be reflected in the views and statements of other people in similar positions.
Sentence 95: A number of companies, of course, are in and are cooperating, such as the American Water Works and Electric Company and the Columbia Gas and Electric Company.
Sentence 96: Finally, we all wish that this delay might have been avoided, and that the utility companies might have cooperated without the many legal steps they took preceding the Supreme Court's decision upholding the constitutionality of the legislative provisions.
Sentence 97: On the other hand, this being a democratic country, where democratic processes work, it is a perfectly normal thing to expect that kind of a delay.
Sentence 98: Q. Mr. President, do you feel it essential to seek extension of your powers over the dollar after next June thirtieth?
Sentence 99: THE PRESIDENT: I have not the faintest idea.
Sentence 100: I had not thought of it until I read it in this morning's paper.
Sentence 101: It comes up this time every year, does it not?
Sentence 102: It is one of the hardy annuals.
Sentence 103: (Laughter) . . .
