Sentence 1: 1938 Excerpts From The Press Conference 92

Q. Was not the small business men's conference held at the request of the small business men?
Sentence 2: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 3: Yes, and no.
Sentence 4: The origin, of course, is perfectly simple.
Sentence 5: We got in the White House, beginning about two months ago, a large number of letters saying, "Please, can we come down to Washington?
Sentence 6: Why don't you pay the same attention to us?"
Sentence 7: There were hundreds of them that wanted some kind of a conference in Washington.
Sentence 8: It was perfectly vague, but they wanted to be here.
Sentence 9: Of course, to a good many of them we wrote back and said it was impossible to see everybody individually and would they write their views.
Sentence 10: They still kept coming back and saying, "We would like to come to Washington."
Sentence 11: There were a good many hundreds of them.
Sentence 12: We were confused, quite frankly, with the dilemma.
Sentence 13: If we said "No" to them, certain agencies in the country would say that we were turning them down.
Sentence 14: If we invited them down here, it would be very difficult to handle a group of that kind.
Sentence 15: But I do not think it is a fair thing to ridicule either them or their efforts.
Sentence 16: Q. How were they invited?
Sentence 17: Were those who wrote the letters, were they the ones?
Sentence 18: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 19: Yes, largely.
Sentence 20: I think entirely.
Sentence 21: They were all people who had written letters.
Sentence 22: Q. Mr. President, a great many of the delegates expressed the belief that the conference has been a flop.
Sentence 23: Do you share in that view?
Sentence 24: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know.
Sentence 25: I have not heard from them.
Sentence 26: Q. Mr. President, have you asked any Federal agency to study the possibility of extending financial aid to small business men?
THE.
Sentence 27: PRESIDENT:
Sentence 28: Well, that matter is under study, as I said last week.
Sentence 29: Q. Mr. President, may I read one sentence from Senator Wagner's speech on the Housing Bill, when he subscribed to the idea of taking out the prevailing wage amendment?
Sentence 30: He said:
If we ever come to the time when we in this body pass laws saying how much a bricklayer shall receive per day, how much a carpenter shall receive, how much a clerk working in private industry of any kind shall receive, and begin to fix all those wages, we will destroy unionism and freedom of collective bargaining and advance on the road toward fascism.
Sentence 31: [Page 1266, Cong.
Sentence 32: Record, 75th Congress, 3rd Session.]
Sentence 33: Would you mind telling us whether that is your thought, too?
Sentence 34: THE PRESIDENT: It goes in line with everything I have always said, always.
Sentence 35: Now, do not misinterpret that.
Sentence 36: There are lots of ways of misinterpreting it.
Sentence 37: Q.
Sentence 38: His idea was that if you go beyond fixing, you get into this realm of doubt and danger.
Sentence 39: THE PRESIDENT: I will just give you one thought on it.
Sentence 40: You know we talked a good deal about a floor for Agriculture.
Sentence 41: Well, just use the analogy on wages.
Sentence 42: The Agricultural bill does not attempt, in any way, to set the price on corn or the price on anything else.
Sentence 43: All it does is sets a floor.
Sentence 44: Use the same analogy on wages and you will about hit it right. . . .
