Sentence 1: 1938 Excerpts From The Press Conference 96

Q. Have you asked the three TVA directors in for a conference next week?
Sentence 2: THE PRESIDENT: No, not next week; this week, Friday morning.
Sentence 3: Q.
Sentence 4: All three?
THE PRESIDENT: All three.
Sentence 5: Q.
Sentence 6: At the same time?
THE PRESIDENT: Right after I see you, at 11.00 o'clock.
Q.
Sentence 7: All three at the same time?
Sentence 8: THE PRESIDENT: All three at the same time.
Sentence 9: If you want some-thing for background, this goes back.
Sentence 10: It is a long, long story.
Sentence 11: There have been all of these disagreements and disputes for about a year.
Sentence 12: Finally, last September, this disagreement between the majority and the minority came to a head in this way: There was an article in the Atlantic Monthly, the September number, if you remember.
Sentence 13: The majority of the Directors passed a resolution in regard to the article by the minority member, in effect asking that the allegations impugning the integrity of the majority should either be made good or be withdrawn.
Sentence 14: That was sent to me and I sent a letter to Dr. Arthur Morgan on the third of September.
Sentence 15: There is no use in cluttering up the record and giving you the whole letter, but I called his attention to the resolution disavowing such methods in the discussion of TVA problems as injurious to the project and the public interest.
Sentence 16: Then I went on and I said this to Dr. Arthur Morgan:
"Naturally, I am concerned by this and do not think that the matter can properly rest where it is.
Sentence 17: May I suggest, therefore, that there is a very definite obligation on you either to withdraw what your colleagues believe to be an impugning of their integrity or that you present whatever specific facts you may have, if any, to justify your statements.
Sentence 18: "After all, no great constructive work can be carried out if those in charge of the administration of the work feel that their integrity and motives have been challenged by a fellow member.
Sentence 19: I know that you will agree with me in this.
Sentence 20: "
Well, in reply to that letter I got no reply, but Dr. Morgan came to see me about two weeks later on
Sentence 21: and I said, "It is a pretty serious thing to impugn the motives of your fellow members, their integrity."
Sentence 22: "Well," he said, "I did not mean it that way.
Sentence 23: I did not mean to impugn their motives.
Sentence 24: I have no question as to their personal integrity."
Sentence 25: "Well," I said, "for Heaven's sake don't do it again.
Sentence 26: Go back and see if you cannot work in harmony with your two fellow members.
Sentence 27: "
Sentence 28: Well, that is about all that happened in the fall, but evidently conflict was going on underneath.
Sentence 29: Now it has come to a head in these statements to the public and to the press and on Friday all three members are going to appear before me.
Sentence 30: I am going to ask that the statements by all of them be justified, if they can justify them, but that I want facts and not opinions.
Sentence 31: I want nothing but facts.
Sentence 32: To give you an illustration of the true awkwardness of the situation, I got two telegrams today.
Sentence 33: One was from New Jersey.
Sentence 34: It says-mind you, this is from a person who had absolutely no access to anything except the newspapers—"Please, Mr. President, you must vindicate Dr. Arthur Morgan."
Sentence 35: The other one, from Illinois, said, "Please, you must vindicate the majority and not surrender to the power interests."
Sentence 36: Now, of course, that kind of public opinion is worth nothing at all because it is not based on any facts.
Sentence 37: There isn't one of you that has any facts.
Sentence 38: I haven't either.
Sentence 39: Let us stick to the facts.
Sentence 40: That is why we are having this meeting on Friday.
Sentence 41: Q.
Sentence 42: What time is the meeting, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 43: Eleven o'clock.
Sentence 44: Q.
Sentence 45: If they cannot justify the statements they have been making, then what?
THE PRESIDENT: Now you are asking a question before the case has been heard by the court.
Sentence 46: Q. Do you expect any of them to remain in office?
Sentence 47: THE PRESIDENT: That is asking the decision of the court before I have any evidence.
Sentence 48: There you are!
Sentence 49: Aren't those last two questions absolutely typical?
Sentence 50: Did you ever know anything to beat it?
Sentence 51: "What are you going to do before you get the testimony?
Sentence 52: "
Q. How are we going to find out what did go on?
THE PRESIDENT: I am going to ask questions.
Sentence 53: Q. How will we find out?
Sentence 54: THE PRESIDENT: I will tell you all about it.
Sentence 55: Q.
Sentence 56: When?
THE PRESIDENT: After we get through.
Sentence 57: Q.
Sentence 58: Do we have a press conference?
Sentence 59: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 60: At half past ten.
Sentence 61: You will get it, don't worry.
Sentence 62: You will get the facts.
Sentence 63: Q. Mr. President, do you know whether you have power under the TVA Act to call for the resignation or require the resignation of a member of the Commission?
Sentence 64: THE PRESIDENT: I have not the faintest idea, not the faintest.
Sentence 65: In other words, I have not investigated that end.
Sentence 66: I haven't the faintest idea.
Sentence 67: I am interested in the facts regarding these allegations, which are of a general nature, on both sides.
Sentence 68: Q. Is Senator Norris going to sit in with you?
Sentence 69: Has he been invited to sit in with you?
Sentence 70: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 71: He has not.
Sentence 72: Q. Will you have anyone else there besides yourself and the three Commissioners?
Sentence 73: THE PRESIDENT: I think Steve
Sentence 74: [Early] will be here so that he can give you a report on it. . . .
