Sentence 1: 1938 Excerpts From The Press Conference 95

Q. Mr. President, I suppose some of these gentlemen will ask you about the tax bill.
Sentence 2: I was talking to Bumgardner
Sentence 3: [Clerk of House Ways & Means Committee] and he told me that something had been left out of that bill which was in the former bill, and that is the publication of the salaries of corporation executives.
Sentence 4: That is not in the bill.
Sentence 5: Do you approve of that?
Sentence 6: THE PRESIDENT: I did not know that, until I read it in the paper yesterday morning and I am very, very sorry that that has been left out.
Sentence 7: I think it is a question of simple morality.
Sentence 8: I think I stated, once upon a time, that in addition to public office being a public trust, private office is also a public trust.
Sentence 9: There are two types of corporation executives.
Sentence 10: One is the executive of a company that has a large number of public shareholders.
Sentence 11: Its stock is owned by thousands and tens of thousands of people.
Sentence 12: It is traded in, and new people buy it from day to day.
Sentence 13: Theoretically, a stockholder has the right to go to a meeting of the corporation in some small town in Kentucky or in Wilmington, Delaware, and say, "How much did the President and the Vice President, et cetera, get last year by way of salary and bonus?"
Sentence 14: Practically, he does not.
Sentence 15: Practically, the purchaser of the stock of that company does not know and has no way of finding out, unless he goes to particular pains to find out, what the corporation's salaries are.
Sentence 16: Again, private office is a public trust.
Sentence 17: Why should not the public know what the executives of these corporations get?
Sentence 18: Let us use some examples: Did the public know for years, until it was brought out in an investigation, what Mr. Grace of Bethlehem Steel was getting by way of salary and bonus?
Sentence 19: They did not; and there was a wave of public indignation that went over the country when it was discovered that one man was getting a million dollars a year.
Sentence 20: Why should not the public know the salaries of the executives of General Motors Corporation?
Sentence 21: There is no reason why they should not know it.
Sentence 22: It is a private office with a public trust.
Sentence 23: Take the other type of corporation, the closely held, family-owned corporation.
Sentence 24: There it is a slightly different matter because it is owned by one man or one family.
Sentence 25: But we know of not just a few sporadic cases but of a great many cases where the family-owned company has, on the public record, made at the end of the year no profit at all.
Sentence 26: That is, the published record—the books-show no profit, show the company barely in the black or perhaps even with a loss.
Sentence 27: At the same time, it is perfectly possible for the owners, the members of the family, to be paying themselves the profits of the company by way of very large salaries.
Sentence 28: Actually, the company may be making a large profit which, because of the hidden character of the proceedings, is not known to the general public.
Sentence 29: A corporation of that kind is able to say, "No, we cannot afford to improve the conditions of the people who work for us because we are not making any money.
Sentence 30: See our books."
Sentence 31: Actually the family may be drawing down the kind of salary that is so large that the public as a whole, the Government and competing companies have a right to know about it.
Sentence 32: That is another phase of it.
Sentence 33: In other words, private office is a public trust.
Sentence 34: And there is absolutely no valid reason why, in my judgment, that clause, the present clause for publicity with respect to corporation executives' salaries, should be repealed.
Sentence 35: It is a question of morals, public morals.
Sentence 36: Q. Mr. President, you said there was no other way.
Sentence 37: The S.E.C. does have these figures.
Sentence 38: These are for the tax bill.
Sentence 39: Is there any reason for the duplication?
Sentence 40: THE PRESIDENT: I don't care, as long as the public knows all about it.
Sentence 41: How it is done is perfectly immaterial.
Sentence 42: As long as every newspaper in the United States, in pursuance of the policy of freedom of the press, has the right to publish them.
Sentence 43: Q. Mr. President, would you make any distinction between corporations whose stock is on the market and those that are not?
Sentence 44: THE PRESIDENT: No. . . .
Sentence 45: Q.
Sentence 46: This being the anniversary season, perhaps you have an anniversary message of some sort for us?
Sentence 47: THE PRESIDENT: That is pretty difficult.
Sentence 48: Of course it has so many ramifications.
Sentence 49: I think possibly the significant thing is that, after five years, the old Ship of State is on the same course.
Sentence 50: It is a course which is aimed at the same things which I described, offhand, one day in a press conference when my friend from the Vancouver Sun asked a question.
Sentence 51: You might get that out.
Sentence 52: It was not very long, about two paragraphs.
Sentence 53: We have the same objectives and the same ideals.
Sentence 54: Along that line, I think again it is worth while to draw the distinction between objectives and policies towards those objectives, as the broad subject on one side, and what we call methods on the other side.
Sentence 55: I was talking yesterday, to illustrate, about the fiscal policy of the Government, which includes a great many things.
Sentence 56: It includes the problem of foreign exchange.
Sentence 57: It includes the problem of the price level.
Sentence 58: It includes the problem of public finance.
Sentence 59: A great many people are prone to mix methods with objectives.
Sentence 60: If you will remember a year ago, April, we were afraid that the objective of the Government towards the stabilization of the price level, or values, which is a better word, would be threatened by inflation, a boom, and therefore we put the helm of the ship hard a-starboard to prevent the ship, because of the fluctuation of the wind, from leaving her course.
Sentence 61: A year later, less than a year later, last autumn, the wind shifted and we were threatened with deflation.
Sentence 62: Therefore, we shifted the helm of the ship hard a-port, in order to keep the ship on the course.
Sentence 63: Well, that is illustrative of maintaining an objective and it is illustrative also of the fact that so many people, when you shift the helm in order to maintain the same course, call it a change in policy.
Sentence 64: Most of you good people are guilty of it, and a lot of other people are, too.
Sentence 65: You do not see the big thing.
Sentence 66: You see the thing of immediate moment.
Sentence 67: This is not a complaint, because it is a perfectly natural, human thing to do.
Sentence 68: It makes a story.
Sentence 69: But on the general objective we have gone a long way and of course we are going further.
Sentence 70: One of the objectives is increased purchasing power for the people.
Sentence 71: I can illustrate that by a story I have told to a number of people.
Sentence 72: Some of my friends, who are in special lines of business, fine people, honest people, have come in to me and talked to me.
Sentence 73: They are people I have known by their first names for years, and I say to them, "By the way, what is your thought on the problem of the sharecropper and the tenant-farmer?
Sentence 74: I am sort of stumped by that
Sentence 75: but I think we ought to do something.
Sentence 76: What do you think we ought to do?"
Sentence 77: Well, I have tried that on a good many people and the invariable answer from these perfectly fine business men I have talked to has been this: "What do you mean, Mr. President?
Sentence 78: What do you mean by the sharecropper problem?"
Sentence 79: Well, I have explained it to them, and repeated, "What do you think we ought to do?"
Sentence 80: The invariable answer has been, "I don't know anything about it.
Sentence 81: I have never thought of it."
Sentence 82: And then I have said to them, "We have fifteen or twenty million Americans in this country who today have no purchasing power.
Sentence 83: There are fifteen or twenty million Americans falling into that category.
Sentence 84: They are farm tenants, sharecroppers.
Sentence 85: You fellows are making things, all kinds of things, automobiles, hardware, clothing, all the things that you see in a country store.
Sentence 86: Aren't you interested in giving those prospective, possible customers some purchasing power for the things you make?"
Sentence 87: And then they have said to me, "Why, Mr. President, I have never thought of that.
Sentence 88: I never thought of that.
Sentence 89: "
Today people are beginning to think of that.
Sentence 90: And that is the most hopeful thing at the present time.
Sentence 91: The most hopeful thing at the present time is that we are getting people to think about the rounded problem of Government and of all the people of the country, instead of just thinking along their own special line of business.
Sentence 92: In that way, also, I am encouraged to think that we will get away, more and more, from what we call the pressure groups in the country, small groups coming down here with great vociferation, and very often putting through legislation which is beneficial only to one particular group.
Sentence 93: Just to explain it a little bit further, on the question of the big objectives we have accomplished an enormous amount.
Sentence 94: There are some things we have failed to accomplish.
Sentence 95: We think, for instance, that through a system of the control of crop surpluses we are going to maintain to a great extent the purchasing power of the fifty million people who are directly or indirectly dependent on agricultural prices.
Sentence 96: Of course, that is all to the good for the industrial side of things, not only for the owners of industrial corporations but for the workers in industrial corporations.
Sentence 97: And it has only been lately that I have been able to get business men to say to me, "Why, sure we are in favor of that policy, that crop policy, Mr. President."
Sentence 98: And I have said to so many of them—I think I told you this before—"Will you come out and say that out loud?"
Sentence 99: And I think some of them will, as the days go by, say, "Yes, we are in favor of that sort of thing.
Sentence 100: "
On the question of wages and hours, we are working still in fact, that was your question—we are working still to try to put a floor under wages in the United States and a ceiling over hours.
Sentence 101: Well, maybe we won't get it at this session of the Congress—I hope we will—but it is one of those things which is related to national economy.
Sentence 102: People have different ideas about it.
Sentence 103: Some people say that the minimum wage phase of it is the most important.
Sentence 104: Other people say that the maximum hour part of it is the most important.
Sentence 105: But the general objective is just the same on wages and hours as it is with crops and as it is with finance.
Sentence 106: The whole thing is a rounded picture, and, taking it by and large, we have gone a long way on that.
Sentence 107: And then the final phase is that we are not discontinuing our efforts to end—Oh, I suppose the simplest term to be understood is "special privilege."
Sentence 108: We still believe that it is for the good of the country, for the economic good of the country, for the value of stocks and bonds and everything else, to end special privilege.
Sentence 109: There is still a great deal of special privilege.
Sentence 110: The tax bill of two years ago was intended to end certain forms of special privilege.
Sentence 111: The bill of last year was intended to end other forms of special privilege, such as incorporating yachts and starting insurance companies in the Bahamas.
Sentence 112: Taking it by and large, the country sympathizes with the point of view of ending special privileges.
Sentence 113: I do not know that there is anything more.
Sentence 114: These things occur to me out of my mind at the present moment.
Sentence 115: I have not prepared anything on this.
Sentence 116: We are going along toward the same objectives; we have gone a long way on the road and we are going further. . . .
