Sentence 1: 1938 Radio Greeting The Boy Scouts America

Fellow Scouts:
I am happy to receive this report from Mr. Head on the accomplishments of our organization.
Sentence 2: On this twenty-eighth birthday of the Boy Scouts of America we should be especially thankful for a youth movement which seeks merely to preserve such simple fundamentals as physical strength, mental alertness and moral straightness—a movement to support the ideals of peace.
Sentence 3: I congratulate our leaders and especially our Scoutmasters who have made an outstanding record possible.
Sentence 4: We have increased in numbers and I am confident on the basis of what I, myself, have observed that we also are improving in the quality of Scouting.
Sentence 5: Last summer I had the opportunity to visit with thousands of you, from all parts of the country, in your great Jamboree camp here in Washington.
Sentence 6: I am really sorry that every citizen of the country did not see, as I did, the great national encampment of Scouts here along the Potomac River.
Sentence 7: I have seen no more cheering sight from the standpoint of the national future.
Sentence 8: The theme chosen for our Boy Scout Week Observance-"Building a Stronger Generation"—is thoroughly worth while.
Sentence 9: I have always believed that scout training does help to build health for boys and young men.
Sentence 10: It encourages them to get out into the open, to develop good health habits.
Sentence 11: It helps to make them hardy and vigorous.
Sentence 12: Of course, we all recognize that "Building a Stronger Generation" involves more than good health.
Sentence 13: It involves strong character, initiative, resourcefulness and ideals of service—qualities that you practice in your scouting experiences.
Sentence 14: But it involves, also, learning all about other people—your neighbors and their problems, the people who live in the other end of town and their problems, the people who live in the next town and their problems, those who live in the next State and their problems—in other words, the problems of every part of the United States.
Sentence 15: When you have accomplished that you will realize, also, that there are problems outside the United States which affect you and your family and friends.
Sentence 16: Thus, the ideals of scouting include not only character and service but also knowledge.
Sentence 17: They will be as real and vital to you in your manhood as they are to you today in your boyhood.
Sentence 18: It is my conviction that, through work with our youth, we shall secure the greatest assurance of maintaining our democracy in the face of those forces which advocate forms of government not consistent with our cherished American traditions.
Sentence 19: And the strength of this youth movement will develop in exact proportion to the support accorded it by communities who are interested in preserving our democracy.
Sentence 20: I extend to you my best wishes for the year to come.
Sentence 21: Boy Scouts today—you will be the citizens tomorrow, with a nation's keeping in your charge.
Sentence 22: I believe that you will be worthy of the trust.
