Sentence 1: 1938 Excerpts From The Press Conference 99

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I have got a lot of news today.
Sentence 3: I suppose I might as well forestall questions—a number of them.
Sentence 4: That would be the easiest way.
Sentence 5: First, on this conference that is just over, I think Chairman Taylor gave you the gist of it.
Sentence 6: We discussed the needs on national defense, Army and Navy, from many angles and the message will go up to the Congress as soon as I get it written.
Sentence 7: I cannot give you the date yet.
Sentence 8: If I get it written by Thursday next it will go up then and, if not, then on Friday.
Sentence 9: I want to get it up Friday at the latest.
Sentence 10: No details.
Sentence 11: On the question of these small business men that we defined so carefully the other day, I find there are about 500 requests which have already come in.
Sentence 12: Of course it is physically impossible for me to see all 500 of them, so we are arranging for Secretary of Commerce Roper and Assistant Secretary Draper to see them, probably next Monday although the date has not been finally set.
Sentence 13: That will be over in the Department of Commerce and they will talk things over.
Sentence 14: I suppose they will probably elect their own chairman to preside over them with the assistance of Assistant Secretary Draper and the Secretary, if they can both be there.
Sentence 15: When they finish their discussions, it is my hope that they will send, of their own choosing, about ten or twelve of the people who have been there around here to see me.
Sentence 16: I will see them when they come, at the conclusion of their discussions over there.
Sentence 17: That seems to be the only practical way of handling it.
Sentence 18: I got word that I was to be asked a question.
Sentence 19: I have been thinking that question over and I have written out the answer so that there won't be any question as to the answer.
Sentence 20: The question was this—I think it was Fred's, but I don't know.
Sentence 21: Mr. Storm: I had a question for you on steel prices, Mr. President.
Sentence 22: THE PRESIDENT: Fred's question was, "Do you agree with Mr. Fairless that steel prices can't be reduced without cutting wages?"
You will all get copies of this.
Sentence 23: The answer is this:
(Reading from a Press statement, released in mimeographed form.)
Sentence 24: "I'm afraid it won't help for me to answer that question again.
Sentence 25: "I have said so frequently—and I do not know how to say more clearly and unequivocally than I have already said-that I am opposed to wage reductions.
Sentence 26: "I am opposed to wage reductions because the markets of American industry depend on the purchasing power of our working population.
Sentence 27: And if we want to restore prosperity we must increase, not decrease, that purchasing power.
Sentence 28: "Now, those are words of one syllable.
Sentence 29: "There may be a special hourly wage situation in some building trades—
"That is what I referred to in the Message.
Sentence 30: "—in
Sentence 31: some localities which so far as the total yearly earnings are concerned may call for different treatment, but even there our primary purpose is to increase and not decrease the total of the annual pay of the workers.
Sentence 32: "Is that clear?
Sentence 33: Q. Yes, sir.
Sentence 34: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 35: [Reading] "Now as to prices.
Sentence 36: "A mass production industry depends on volume for profits.
Sentence 37: "
That is why it is a mass production industry.
Sentence 38: "No mass production industry can expect to make a profit when the volume is small.
Sentence 39: The steel industry cannot make a profit at 30 per cent capacity but it can at 50 per cent or 55 per cent of capacity."
Sentence 40: And remember, of course, that in the case of the steel industry-on the figures I am using— 100 per cent of capacity means three shifts, 24 hours a day operation, and, I think,
Sentence 41: six days anyway and maybe seven days a week.
Sentence 42: So a hundred per cent means running everything they have wide open, 24 hours a day.
Sentence 43: "The only way to get volume up is to produce goods for a price the public will pay.
Sentence 44: A mass production industry in its own interest should ask for its production what the people can afford to pay.
Sentence 45: "But that does not mean that such price reductions can come out of wages.
Sentence 46: Those who believe in the profit system must recognize that those who get the profits when business is good must bear the losses when business temporarily is slack.
Sentence 47: Those who get the profits when industry gets the volume are the ones to bear the risk of such price reductions as may be necessary to stimulate and restore volume.
Sentence 48: "Those in charge of a well-managed and solvent industry should no more consider casting the burden of a temporary business recession upon their workers than upon their bondholders.
Sentence 49: To cast such burden on bondholders is financial bankruptcy.
Sentence 50: To cast such burden on its workers is not only moral bankruptcy, but the bankruptcy of sound business judgment.
Sentence 51: "Industrialists kill the goose which lays the golden egg when they keep prices up at the expense of employment and purchasing power.
Sentence 52: Industrialists kill the goose which lays the golden egg when they cut wages and thereby reduce purchasing power.
Sentence 53: Either policy is self-defeating and suicidal.
Sentence 54: "If industries reduce wages this winter and spring, they will be deliberately encouraging the withholding of buying-they will be fostering a downward spiral and they will make it necessary for their Government to consider other means of creating purchasing power."
Sentence 55: Now, the reason for that is two things: First, from the statistics we find that a number of businesses in a few sections of the country—not many, for it has not receded to any length at the present time—are in the process of reducing wages.
Sentence 56: The other reason is that there have been whisperings of a further effort on the part of a few industries in those sections and other parts of the country to reduce wages, hence this statement today.
Sentence 57: It is all in words of one syllable.
Sentence 58: It answers every question that can possibly be asked, and there we are.
Sentence 59: Q. Mr. President, if the Steel Corporation persists in its stand—
THE PRESIDENT: What is that?
Q.
Sentence 60: If Mr. Fairless and his colleagues in the Steel Corporation persist in their stand that wages must be reduced if prices are to be reduced, what is the next step?
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 62: Well, the step was this statement.
Sentence 63: That was the next step.
Sentence 64: Q.
Sentence 65: What is the step beyond that?
Sentence 66: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 67: Now you are becoming "Jiffy."
Sentence 68: Q. Mr. President, John L. Lewis told the Mine Workers Convention this morning that labor will resist any downward cut in prices as well as wages, meaning—well, of course he won't object to price cuts if they do not affect the wage scale, but they will fight price cuts if they mean wage cuts.
Sentence 69: Have you any comment on that?
Sentence 70: THE PRESIDENT: I said exactly the same thing here.
Sentence 71: If price cuts are based on wage cuts, they are wrong.
Sentence 72: I have also said that in some industries we all know that price cuts may be made without reducing wages. . . .
