Sentence 1: 1938 Excerpts From The Press Conference 89

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I don't think I have any news in particular.
Sentence 3: I found the memorandum
Sentence 4: [Wendell L. Willkie memorandum].
Sentence 5: I guess it was Pete who was asking about it.
Sentence 6: Of course we have been working on the subject since this memorandum was left.
Sentence 7: That was away back in November— November 23rd—and there has been a lot of water which has gone over the dam since then.
Sentence 8: This whole memorandum, of course, is based on treating the utilities as a whole, not differentiating between the four inches and the ninety-six, and we have got a new definition now in the minds of the public.
Sentence 9: It is the same old story about trying to lump all business together.
Sentence 10: We have got away from it now, but this memo was based on the old-fashioned idea of lumping all the utilities into the same category.
Sentence 11: There is nothing particularly new about it.
Sentence 12: It is marked, "Confidential," so I cannot give you the thing textually.
Sentence 13: Q. Will you work on this one now?
Sentence 14: [Giving the President a newspaper clipping containing the memorandum referred to.]
Sentence 15: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 16: Sure; I did not know it had come out.
Sentence 17: That is fine.
Sentence 18: I had no objection to its coming out, but the darned thing is marked Confidential, so I did not know.
Sentence 19: Q.
Sentence 20: It came out while we were in Florida.
Sentence 21: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 22: In the first place, this memorandum indicates that it expresses his own personal views and proposals, acting on behalf of The Commonwealth g: Southern Corporation.
Sentence 23: It does not speak for anyone else.
Sentence 24: It goes on to say, "In my judgment, the greatest immediate requirement of the utility industry is a large inflow of common capital indispensable for much needed additional construction.
Sentence 25: "
I think that is perfectly true in regard to the operating companies—a great majority of the operating companies.[Reading] "I have certain suggestions which I believe will immediately stimulate such investment and make possible a large construction program with a considerable increase in employment.
Sentence 26: "One of the factors of great importance to the investor in the utility industry is a stable method of property valuation.
Sentence 27: You have recently recommended what I understand to be the 'prudent investment' method.
Sentence 28: The utilities of the country have issued most of their securities . . .
Sentence 29: under court rulings which have required that in fixing the value of utility properties, the reproduction cost must be one of the elements considered."
Of course, that immediately brings up one subject which he does not mention in this, and that is the amortization of securities.
Sentence 30: If, as a practical purpose, the securities of the operating companies which had been issued under the former rulings of the Supreme Court had been amortized, you would not have very much difficulty with the capital structure at the present time.
Sentence 31: [Reading] "I think the chief objective is to find a method that will induce the investment of capital in the industry.
Sentence 32: I am fearful that the retroactive application of any new method would be disturbing to the capital market.
Sentence 33: "
Again speaking of the operating companies, if an amortization or sinking fund had been set up on the senior securities when they were issued which, of course, we think now is a sound thing, you would not have any trouble in the way of disturbing the capital market.
Sentence 34: [Reading] "On the other hand, the utilities, if informed in advance, can adjust themselves to a new method to be applied in the future.
Sentence 35: "In order to reconcile conflicting ideas, therefore, while at the same time avoiding such disturbance, I have to suggest the following formula:
1.
Sentence 36: That the utilities immediately eliminate from their capital structures all write-ups heretofore claimed by the Federal Trade Commission.
Sentence 37: "
Again you have to differentiate between the operating company and the holding company and, frankly, I don't know enough of that particular Federal Trade Commission report—it was not on all of them, it was on some of them-to give an intelligent answer to that particular suggestion.
Sentence 38: Some of it may be all right and some may not.
Sentence 39: Of course it would have to be gone over again be[ore you would get to a final decision.[Reading]
"2.
Sentence 40: That the utility valuation under the rule established by the courts apply either up to this date or to the date of the commencement of your first term as President and that after such date and for the future the prudent investment method be adopted.
Sentence 41: "
Of course that is impossible, because if the thing is wrong now or has been wrong since the 4th of March in 1933, I cannot see where you have any right morally to compound a felony by law, with the Government saying that the crimes of the past will be entirely forgotten and forgiven and that we will leave the water or the wind in the existing capital.
Sentence 42: Two wrongs do not make a right.
Sentence 43: I think that is perfectly obvious.
Sentence 44: [Reading] "But an understanding as to the method of valuation is, in my judgment, only one of the clarifications necessary in order to establish a relationship between the government and the utilities which will restore investment confidence in the industry.
Sentence 45: There are certain questions in the mind of the prospective utility investor—"
Again the question of the utility investor
[Reading] "—with reference to such things as the action to be taken under Section 11 of the Public Utility Act of 1935; the procedure of selling power to be practiced by federal agencies such as the Tennessee Valley Authority, and the accounting practices to be followed by those agencies; the future policy of the Federal Government with regard to the making of gifts and loans to municipalities to build duplicate utility systems.
Sentence 46: "In order to answer these questions in the public mind, may I suggest the consideration of the following program:
1.
Sentence 47: Clarification of the Public Utility Act of 1935 as follows:
(a) Retention of all its regulatory provisions over financing and accounting practices, issuance of securities, relationship between operating companies and holding companies, etc.
(b) Modification of. . .
Sentence 48: the. . .
Sentence 49: 'death sentence.'" Of course, there you come right down to the heart of it.
Sentence 50: In other words, he wants the four-inch tail to be legalized for all time to come.
Sentence 51: We cannot agree on that, ever.
Sentence 52: [Reading] "2.
Sentence 53: Determination of the following policies for the Tennessee Valley Authority and other similar federal projects.
Sentence 54: "
Well, there are a whole lot of them, six of them, in this memorandum and the answer is two-fold: In the first place, we are all agreed that the percentage of territory, population and power affected by Government projects is somewhere between 12 and 15 per cent of the total, and the other 85 per cent is not affected by any Federal power manufactured at the present time.
Sentence 55: That is an old story.
Sentence 56: In those areas, the 12 to 15 per cent of the Nation, we are trying to work out—for instance, Mr. Ross, out on the Columbia, is trying to work out a satisfactory arrangement with the local utilities.
Sentence 57: The other point raised is as to the loan and grant methods to municipalities that want to put in their own power plants.
Sentence 58: The very simple answer on that is the Government recognizes the right of any municipality to put in its own power plant if the vote is so determined.
Sentence 59: That is just plain American form of government.
Sentence 60: You cannot get away from it and they do not pretend they can.
Sentence 61: Even Mr. Willkie said, "Of course not; they have the right to do it if the state gives them the right."
Sentence 62: It is not a Federal problem at all.
Sentence 63: Q.
Sentence 64: What they say is that you are subsidizing them with that 45 per cent grant?
Sentence 65: THE PRESIDENT: All right; if they want to complete a new highway, we give them WPA labor; if they want a new sewer system built, we give them WPA labor; if they want a new water works, we give them WPA labor.
Sentence 66: I think the Supreme Court has made it fairly clear that there is not very much difference.
Sentence 67: You cannot draw the line in one place and not draw it in the other.
Sentence 68: Q. Isn't there a difference in the sewers and the highways?
Sentence 69: They do not compete with private industry from the practical standpoint.
Sentence 70: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 71: Well, I am talking about constitutional law.
Sentence 72: That is plain constitutional law.
Sentence 73: Q.
Sentence 74: Yes, I realize that, but you are also talking about a very practical
Sentence 75: —
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 76: Well, on the practical end, of course the ideal is this: That if a municipality wants to build its own power plant, it will offer a fair price for the existing private utility, and if the utility turns it down, its facilities have got to be paralleled.
Sentence 77: That is perfectly simple.
Sentence 78: Q. Mr. President, to go back to your phrase of a moment ago, "water and wind in the capital structure of these corporations," do you know of any device, short of a wringer, that can reduce that at the present time?
Sentence 79: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 80: In the case of operating companies or holding companies?
Q. Either.
Sentence 81: Either is in the same condition.
Sentence 82: THE PRESIDENT: Of course there isn't a universal rule but, in the case of the operating companies, the amount of wind or water is comparatively small.
Sentence 83: In talking with operating company executives, in the cases we have talked about, the individual cases, we have come to the conclusion that the amount of wind or water is so comparatively small that some method can be found for forcing it out without hurting the operating company.
Sentence 84: Now, in the case of the holding companies, you have an entirely different picture, because there is such a very large percentage of water.
Sentence 85: Q. Do any of the holding companies amortize?
Sentence 86: THE PRESIDENT: That I don't know.
Sentence 87: I would say, offhand, that a great majority of them do not.
Sentence 88: Q.
Sentence 89: I believe there are something like twenty-five municipal plants that may be created now by following the Supreme Court decision on the PWA case.
Sentence 90: Is it the intention to allow grants to those municipalities where they already have existing private facilities?
Sentence 91: THE PRESIDENT: Under the old law—I think this goes back to 1934—their applications were treated just like all other applications, and where it looked as if the bonds were sound, the thing went through just like any other local improvement.
Sentence 92: Then the thing was taken to the courts and the money was hung up on a peg for them.
Sentence 93: In other words, we had a moral obligation to go through with the original allotment if the courts said we should.
Sentence 94: Now the courts have said that we should, that it is the constitutional thing to do.
Sentence 95: So, we are taking the money off the peg and giving it to them under the original allotment, in good faith.
Sentence 96: Q. Doesn't that in each case, or in most cases at least, permit competition with private capital?
Sentence 97: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know.
Sentence 98: They may be buying out in a great many cases.
Sentence 99: I think you will find that probably in a great many of these cases of municipalities building their own plants, that they will not duplicate lines, that they will work out some form of purchase from the local private company.
Sentence 100: If you remember, in the case of Knoxville, they worked out in that case with the Electric Bond & Share subsidiary a price, and the price was approved by 98 per cent of the bondholders, 97 per cent of the preferred stockholders and 95 per cent of the common stock holders.
Sentence 101: The thing was all ready to work, all ready to go through, whereupon, although there was full knowledge that they had spent months on this, and with the full knowledge of the Electric Bond g: Share officials in New York City, they got the local ice company and some of the minority two per cent of the stockholders to throw the thing into the Court, where it has been tied up ever since.
Sentence 102: There was a substantial agreement on the price in that case and you will find a good many other cases where there was substantial agreement on the price.
Sentence 103: Q.
Sentence 104: You were making a contrast between operating and holding companies and you said that in the case of holding companies there is an entirely different situation and then somebody asked you a question.
Sentence 105: Have you concluded your statement about that?
Sentence 106: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 107: Except this: I suppose the easiest way of putting it, of putting the holding company case, is this: What we are trying to do, frankly, is to eliminate the power in the four per cent tail.
Sentence 108: I have had these people come in to me, heads of operating companies, and say, "We are ready to shoot.
Sentence 109: "
"Can you raise the money locally?"
"Sure we can."
"Well, why don't you?"
"Because the holding company in New York does not let it go through; they want to do the financing there.
Sentence 110: "
You will find lots of cases there where the president of the operating company is in good shape to go ahead and the holding company is holding it up.
Sentence 111: That is another reason for the term, "holding company.
Sentence 112: "
Q. To hold up.
Sentence 113: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 114: Now, of course, you cannot have a generic statement about all holding companies, because they all differ, each one, from the other.
Sentence 115: Some of them have quite a lot of equity, without any question, and others have very little equity, as in the case where about six hundred million dollars' worth controls thirteen billion dollars' worth of utility capital.
Sentence 116: That just can't go on.
Sentence 117: I think they all recognize it.
Sentence 118: Q. Is bankruptcy the way to eliminate the power?
Sentence 119: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 120: No; oh, no!
Sentence 121: There are various ways out.
Sentence 122: Q. Sir, are you leading up to eliminating holding companies entirely?
Sentence 123: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 124: Yes.
Sentence 125: Q. Is that a fair question?
Sentence 126: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 127: Yes.
Sentence 128: Now, an investment trust is a different thing from a holding company.
Sentence 129: I give you that as a suggestion-as long as the investment trust does not vote its stock.
Sentence 130: Q.
Sentence 131: You said all holding companies.
Sentence 132: Is that even of the first degree?
Sentence 133: THE PRESIDENT: Why have any at all?
Sentence 134: Q. Does that extend to other lines of industry?
Sentence 135: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 136: Yes.
Sentence 137: Q.
Sentence 138: How could that be done, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 139: You take on the question of banking holding companies, that is another very good illustration.
Sentence 140: You find a situation in a good many parts of the country where in a very large geographical area practically all of the banks are controlled by some holding company.
Sentence 141: The little local bank is going.
Sentence 142: It is a bad thing.
Sentence 143: Why can't a bank in a community, that is able to support a bank, run itself under proper supervision by the Federal Government, which we give today?
Sentence 144: It has depositors' insurance and a careful checkup at all times.
Sentence 145: Q. Will legislation be proposed, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 146: I don't know; I haven't got to that yet.
Sentence 147: Q. Will it be by the taxing power, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 148: I don't know; I haven't got to that yet.
Sentence 149: Q.
Sentence 150: You suggested that in your message of June, 1935?
Sentence 151: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 152: Yes.
Sentence 153: Q. Mr. President, does that mean the branch banks?
Sentence 154: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 155: No.
Q.
Sentence 156: You know there are chain banks?
Sentence 157: THE PRESIDENT: That is a very different thing.
Sentence 158: Q. Mr. President, is this what you call docking the dog's tail?
Sentence 159: THE PRESIDENT: I would not call it that.
Sentence 160: I'd say, "cutting the muscle in the dog's tail."
Sentence 161: Q.
Sentence 162: It might be a case of cutting the tail of[ right back of the ears, Mr. President.
Sentence 163: THE PRESIDENT: I would hate to destroy his looks, you know; he could have a perfectly good tail if you cut the muscle in it.
Sentence 164: Q. Mr. President, you said a few minutes ago that money had been hung on the peg for some of the municipal plants.
Sentence 165: Do you intend to appropriate any more money for the same purpose?
Sentence 166: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Q.
Sentence 167: No more?
Sentence 168: THE PRESIDENT: I have nothing in the Budget at all on it.
Sentence 169: Q. Have you made any decision with regard to your supplemental national defense program?
Sentence 170: THE PRESIDENT: I have been too busy.
Sentence 171: I am going back to the House now, as soon as the Conference is over, to write it.
Sentence 172: Q.
Sentence 173: Can you tell us whether that will include items for the Army as well as for the Navy, or simply Navy?
Sentence 174: THE PRESIDENT: You are ahead of the game; wait until Monday or Tuesday. . . .
Sentence 175: Q. Mr. President, have you had any reports indicating any change in the business situation?
Sentence 176: THE PRESIDENT: That is too general a statement.
Sentence 177: You had better go and ask the Central Statistical Board about that.
Sentence 178: It is a mighty long subject.
Sentence 179: Some places are picking up, in others they are standing still and in one or two they are still going down.
Sentence 180: The general trend is a good deal better than it was before Christmas. . . .
