Sentence 1: 1938 Address Covington Kentucky

Senator Barkley, Governor Chandler, my friends of Kentucky:
I am glad to be back in Kentucky.
Sentence 2: Some Republicans have suggested that I have come to Kentucky on a political mission.
Sentence 3: But I assure you the only reason is that I cannot get to Oklahoma without crossing Kentucky.
Sentence 4: Every time that I have come into this State in the past few years, I have not been able to forget a certain trip which I made across a large part of Kentucky in the early autumn of 1932-six years ago, though it seems a whole lot longer.
Sentence 5: And on that occasion, though I had been traveling in many states, what I saw in Kentucky stirred me more deeply than I had ever been stirred in my life—except perhaps in the days during the World War when I saw the misery and the suffering on the fields of France.
Sentence 6: On my visit to Kentucky in 1932 my train moved slowly from Covington to Louisville and thence in a southeasterly direction, through villages and farming sections and mining districts.
Sentence 7: As we stopped at small stations the crowds congregated.
Sentence 8: Hunger, stark hunger, stared out at me from the faces of men and women and little children.
Sentence 9: There was scarcely a new dress or a new suit of clothes in the crowd.
Sentence 10: It was a chill day, very different from this day, and for the actual want of clothes people stood there shivering.
Sentence 11: They were looking up at two men.
Sentence 12: One of them was a candidate for the Presidency, going about the country telling people that the national situation was grave—so deeply serious that the time for promises had come to an end and the time for action was at hand.
Sentence 13: The other man on that train platform was a Senator from Kentucky—a man of experience in the affairs of his State and of his Nation—a man who had fought valiantly as a member of the then Democratic minority in Washington, voting against doing nothing, voting in favor of action to meet the growing needs of the Nation.
Sentence 14: On that day's trip, I know that Senator Barkley and I were thinking little in terms of partisan politics.
Sentence 15: We were thinking in terms of American needs—not just Kentucky's needs but the deep-seated wants that had come into the lives of the people of every state, the lives of millions of people scattered throughout the Nation.
Sentence 16: Yes, tears were in our eyes that day.
Sentence 17: We were affected not alone by misery but by the fortitude we saw, because we realized that these people still had faith—faith in the institutions of the United States—faith in the Government of the United States—faith that their Government would, before it was too late, come through.
Sentence 18: On that trip, too, between stops, your Senator and I talked of many things.
Sentence 19: We talked of economic conditions and social conditions-of the thousands of things that had to be done, in the East, and in the Middle West, and in the border states, and in the South and in the Far West, if America as a Nation was to carry on.
Sentence 20: I shall never forget that day because I saw things with my own eyes that made me think more deeply about the fundamentals of life than I had ever thought before, and because I had an opportunity that day to talk of those things with a great American who had been on the "firing line" for years, and had striven to avert the disaster, and was willing and able to give practical advice for the cure of it.
Sentence 21: I shall not recount the progress of the intervening years.
Sentence 22: You know the story of them as well as I do.
Sentence 23: I wish that I could follow that same railroad route today.
Sentence 24: I wish that I could look into the faces of the same men and women and children that I saw then.
Sentence 25: And if I could, I know very well that the facts of today would give the lie to those who seek to overthrow this Administration by telling you, as they have been telling you for six months or more, that conditions in the United States today can be compared with the conditions of 1932.
Sentence 26: You and I have the intelligence and the first-hand knowledge to laugh at that kind of political ballyhoo.
Sentence 27: I shall not go into the story of those six years.
Sentence 28: You know today that your bank deposits are safe; that the problem of unemployment is far less serious; that more wheels of industry are turning; that the farmers are better off in a hundred ways; and most important of all, that our people are not half-clothed or half-starving.
Sentence 29: But I do want to speak to you briefly of one part of the broad policy of your Government during these six years—only a part, mind you, but an essential part of a very big whole.
Sentence 30: In that winter of 1932-1933, because of inaction on the part of the Federal Government, thousands of communities everywhere and many of the states of the Nation were facing bankruptcy.
Sentence 31: And as Governor of New York for four years, because I could get no assistance from Washington, I had been compelled, with the approval of my State Legislature—which, by the way, was Republican in both its branches—to care for the human needs of tens of thousands of the citizens of that State.
Sentence 32: Because I could get no assistance from Washington, I was compelled to create state deficits—to put the State Treasury into the "red."
Sentence 33: Why?
Sentence 34: In order to feed the destitute; to give work to the unemployed; to care for the thousands of people who had become dependent on the State for food and shelter.
Sentence 35: And, when I left Albany, the deficit of the State of New York was nearly a hundred million dollars.
Sentence 36: If I were to go back there under similar circumstances, I would do the same thing I did then for the sake of human lives.
Sentence 37: That was the experience of most states.
Sentence 38: They could get no help from the National Government to meet national problems.
Sentence 39: They were in debt and their borrowing capacity was close to an end.
Sentence 40: That was also the experience of hundreds of cities and counties.
Sentence 41: Taxes were not being paid to them, and if they had had to liquidate they would have been insolvent.
Sentence 42: Your Federal Government—the one that started on March 4, 1933—recognized this situation and promptly sought to restore the credit and the finances of the states, the cities and the counties.
Sentence 43: We put a national shoulder under national problems.
Sentence 44: We undertook a great program of work—work relief paid for by the Federal Government, thus helping every community to do a thousand necessary jobs which individual communities could not afford to do by themselves—public works on a matching basis, thus enabling states and cities and school districts and counties to build bridges and buildings and roads and flood control works which they could not afford to do alone; work which took the support of men, women and children off the backs of local communities.
Sentence 45: In the six years that have intervened, many of our states, because of that help from the National Government, are now back in the "black" again—my own State of New York, and your own State of Kentucky among them.
Sentence 46: And I am heartily glad of it.
Sentence 47: Your Governor, my Governor, and a good many other Governors of other states are able to go before their people and announce proudly that they have balanced their budgets.
Sentence 48: More power to their arms!
Sentence 49: I am happy and proud of how much the Federal Government has been able to help Kentucky and the other states.
Sentence 50: It would surprise many people to know how much that help has been.
Sentence 51: Take Kentucky for example:
1—In these six years, the Federal Government has allotted to Kentucky in new kinds of Federal expenditures for relief, work relief, public works, the education of youth, farm rehabilitation and crop benefits—approximately $280,000,000.
Sentence 52: 2—In these six years the Federal Government has spent in more traditional forms of Federal expenditure, such as matching funds for state highways on a fifty-fifty basis, aid to the state for the building of state institutions, flood control and river work, Federal public buildings and the maintenance of the regular agricultural services, at least another fifty million dollars.
Sentence 53: 3—In these six years Federal loans, through the R.F.C., the H.O.L.C., the Farm Credit Administration and other lending agencies—by extending the due date of obligations, by scaling the interest on obligations, giving financial institutions and borrowers alike a chance to reorganize and turn around—have averted from the taxable wealth and the taxable citizens of Kentucky the cost of bearing the liquidation of the 1929-33 depression.
Sentence 54: That, I conservatively estimate, has saved the financial resources of the State of Kentucky several hundred millions of dollars.
Sentence 55: 4—And finally, in these six years the prompt willingness of the Federal Government to take care of flood damage, to begin the prevention of soil erosion, to invest in the protection of Kentucky's natural capital and property while Kentucky had to save on those items—all that is worth incalculable millions of dollars more.
Sentence 56: Add all that up when next you wonder why the National Government has not balanced its budget over the last six years.
Sentence 57: If the Federal Government, your Government, had not done at least some of these things, the state governments would probably not have done them at all out of their own resources, because they could not.
Sentence 58: By assistance like this, not only in Kentucky, but in other states, state treasuries have been enabled to get out of the "red" and into the "black"—and that holds true for the credit of almost every municipality and town and school district and county throughout the Union.
Sentence 59: It has taken courage for the Federal Government to go into the "red" to help state and local governments, to help them get out of the "red" or stay out of the "red."
Sentence 60: But, my friends, nationally it has been worth it.
Sentence 61: Your Governor deserves due credit for getting this State on a sound financial basis.
Sentence 62: He never came to Washington and went away empty-handed.
Sentence 63: I say to him, and I say to you that I have considered him and do consider him a friend of mine, and that I think he has done a good job as the Chief Executive of his State.
Sentence 64: At the same time, I am glad that Senator Barkley is here too.
Sentence 65: I have no hesitation in saying certain things in the presence of Alben Barkley.
Sentence 66: I read in the papers that you are having a primary campaign in Kentucky, a primary campaign for the choice of the Democratic candidate for the United States Senate.
Sentence 67: Both candidates I know.
Sentence 68: Both are men of ability.
Sentence 69: Both are representative Kentuckians.
Sentence 70: I want to make it definite and clear to you that I am not interfering in any shape, manner or form in the primary campaign in Kentucky.
Sentence 71: I do not live here—you do.
Sentence 72: You have the absolute right to vote for any candidate in accordance with the dictates of your conscience.
Sentence 73: No outside source ought to dragoon you.
Sentence 74: Nevertheless, I have a clear right to tell you certain facts relating to the National Government, to national problems, facts which I believe to be true.
Sentence 75: The people of Kentucky have a vital part, a vital stake in these national facts and problems.
Sentence 76: As one of the great states of the Union, Kentucky is interested in national affairs and is therefore entitled to know every angle of national affairs.
Sentence 77: At this stage of world and domestic issues, a serious time for the people of America, a serious time for the people of the whole world, leadership is important to the people of the United States as well as to the people of the individual states.
Sentence 78: We in this country operate principally through what we call the party system.
Sentence 79: We so operate because we believe that party responsibility eliminates a large part of the confusion which would result from a complete lack of party leadership.
Sentence 80: That leadership, as you will readily realize, is necessary not only in the Executive Branch of the National Government but equally necessary in the two Houses of the Congress.
Sentence 81: In the upper House, the leadership of the majority party has been entrusted by the votes of his colleagues to Senator Barkley, the senior Senator from Kentucky.
Sentence 82: I do not need to tell you of his long experience in all of our national problems.
Sentence 83: By virtue of that experience, by virtue of his ability, by virtue of his seniority, he serves on major committees, which deal with major legislation and, in addition to this, he speaks with the voice of the majority leader of the Democratic Party in the Senate of the United States.
Sentence 84: His outlook on affairs of Government is a liberal outlook.
Sentence 85: He has taken a major part in shaping not only the legislation but the actual policies of the past six years.
Sentence 86: I have no doubt whatsoever that Governor Chandler would make a good Senator from Kentucky—but I think that my friend, the Governor, would be the first to acknowledge that as a very junior member of the United States Senate, it would take him many, many years to match the national knowledge, the experience and the acknowledged leadership in the affairs of the Nation of that son of Kentucky, of whom the whole Nation is proud, Alben Barkley.
Sentence 87: One word more.
Sentence 88: You have heard charges and the country has heard charges, and counter charges of the use of political influence exerted on primary voters.
Sentence 89: Charges have been bandied back and forth that employees of the Federal Government and workers on relief are being directed how to vote.
Sentence 90: And we have all heard charges that state employees, people on the state payroll and their friends are being directed how to vote.
Sentence 91: Let me assure you that it is contrary to direct and forceful orders from Washington, for any Federal Government employee to tell those under them how to vote
Sentence 92: and I trust that the same rule applies to those who work for or under the State of Kentucky.
Sentence 93: Personally, I am not greatly disturbed by these stories because I have an old-fashioned idea, an old-fashioned faith, that the voters of Kentucky, no matter whom they employ or by whom they are employed, are going to vote their own personal convictions on Primary Day.
Sentence 94: That is as it should be.
Sentence 95: I am glad to come to this beautiful spot today.
Sentence 96: I know about Latonia by reading the sporting pages of the papers.
Sentence 97: You live on a great river, the Ohio.
Sentence 98: And, by the way, the first steamboat that ever navigated this river was built and run by old Nicholas Roosevelt, my great grandfather's cousin.
Sentence 99: Slowly but surely, we, the new generation, are getting the old river under control, and I am equally certain that the people of America are slowly but surely getting their social and economic problems under control too.
Sentence 100: Let us keep up the good work.
