Sentence 1: 1939 Fireside Chat 13

My fellow Americans and my friends:
Sentence 2: Tonight my single duty is to speak to the whole of America.
Sentence 3: Until four-thirty this morning I had hoped against hope that some miracle would prevent a devastating war in Europe and bring to an end the invasion of Poland by Germany.
Sentence 4: For four long years a succession of actual wars and constant crises have shaken the entire world and have threatened in each case to bring on the gigantic conflict which is today unhappily a fact.
Sentence 5: It is right that I should recall to your minds the consistent and at times successful efforts of your Government in these crises to throw the full weight of the United States into the cause of peace.
Sentence 6: In spite of spreading wars I think that we have every right and every reason to maintain as a national policy the fundamental moralities, the teachings of religion and the continuation of efforts to restore peace—for some day, though the time may be distant, we can be of even greater help to a crippled humanity.
Sentence 7: It is right, too, to point out that the unfortunate events of these recent years have, without question, been based on the use of force and the threat of force.
Sentence 8: And it seems to me clear, even at the outbreak of this great war, that the influence of America should be consistent in seeking for humanity a final peace which will eliminate, as far as it is possible to do so, the continued use of force between nations.
Sentence 9: It is, of course, impossible to predict the future.
Sentence 10: I have my constant stream of information from American representatives and other sources throughout the world.
Sentence 11: You, the people of this country, are receiving news through your radios and your newspapers at every hour of the day.
Sentence 12: You are, I believe, the most enlightened and the best informed people in all the world at this moment.
Sentence 13: You are subjected to no censorship of news, and I want to add that your Government has no information which it withholds or which it has any thought of withholding from you.
Sentence 14: At the same time, as I told my press conference on Friday, it is of the highest importance that the press and the radio use the utmost caution to discriminate between actual verified fact on the one hand, and mere rumor on the other.
Sentence 15: I can add to that by saying that I hope the people of this country will also discriminate most carefully between news and rumor.
Sentence 16: Do not believe of necessity everything you hear or read.
Sentence 17: Check up on it first.
Sentence 18: You must master at the outset a simple but unalterable fact in modern foreign relations between nations.
Sentence 19: When peace has been broken anywhere, the peace of all countries everywhere is in danger.
Sentence 20: It is easy for you and for me to shrug our shoulders and to say that conflicts taking place thousands of miles from the continental United States, and, indeed, thousands of miles from the whole American Hemisphere, do not seriously affect the Americas-and that all the United States has to do is to ignore them' and go about its own business.
Sentence 21: Passionately though we may desire detachment, we are forced to realize that every word that comes through the air, every ship that sails the sea, every battle that is fought, does affect the Americana future.
Sentence 22: Let no man or woman thoughtlessly or falsely talk of America sending its armies to European fields.
Sentence 23: At this moment there is being prepared a proclamation of American neutrality.
Sentence 24: This would have been done even if there had been no neutrality statute on the books, for this proclamation is in accordance with international law and in accordance with American policy.
Sentence 25: This will be followed by a Proclamation required by the existing Neutrality Act.
Sentence 26: And I trust that in the days to come our neutrality can be made a true neutrality.
Sentence 27: It is of the utmost importance that the people of this country, with the best information in the world, think things through.
Sentence 28: The most dangerous enemies of American peace are those who, without well-rounded information on the whole broad subject of the past, the present and the future, undertake to speak with assumed authority, to talk in terms of glittering generalities, to give to the nation assurances or prophesies which are of little present or future value.
Sentence 29: I myself cannot and do not prophesy the course of events abroad—and the reason is that, because I have of necessity such a complete picture of what is going on in every part of the world, I do not dare to do so.
Sentence 30: And the other reason is that I think it is honest for me to be honest with the people of the United States.
Sentence 31: I cannot prophesy the immediate economic effect of this new war on our nation, but I do say that no American has the moral right to profiteer at the expense either of his fellow citizens or of the men, the women and the children who are living and dying in the midst of war in Europe.
Sentence 32: Some things we do know.
Sentence 33: Most of us in the United States believe in spiritual values.
Sentence 34: Most of us, regardless of what church we belong to, believe in the spirit of the New Testament—a great teaching which opposes itself to the use of force, of armed force, of marching armies and falling bombs.
Sentence 35: The overwhelming masses of our people seek peace—peace at home, and the kind of peace in other lands which will not jeopardize our peace at home.
Sentence 36: We have certain ideas and certain ideals of national safety, and we must act to preserve that safety today, and to preserve the safety of our children in future years.
Sentence 37: That safety is and will be bound up with the safety of the Western Hemisphere and of the seas adjacent thereto.
Sentence 38: We seek to keep war from our own firesides by keeping war from coming to the Americas.
Sentence 39: For that we have historic precedent that goes back to the days of the Administration of President George Washington.
Sentence 40: It is serious enough and tragic enough to every American family in every State in the Union to live in a world that is torn by wars on other continents.
Sentence 41: Those wars today affect every American home.
Sentence 42: It is our national duty to use every effort to keep them out of the Americas.
Sentence 43: And at this time let me make the simple plea that partisanship and selfishness be adjourned; and that national unity be the thought that underlies all others.
Sentence 44: This nation will remain a neutral nation, but I cannot ask that every American remain neutral in thought as well.
Sentence 45: Even a neutral has a right to take account of facts.
Sentence 46: Even a neutral cannot be asked to close his mind or his conscience.
Sentence 47: I have said not once, but many times, that I have seen war and that I hate war.
Sentence 48: I say that again and again.
Sentence 49: I hope the United States will keep out of this war.
Sentence 50: I believe that it will.
Sentence 51: And I give you assurance and reassurance that every effort of your Government will be directed toward that end.
Sentence 52: As long as it remains within my power to prevent, there will be no black-out of peace in the United States.
