Sentence 1: 1939 Press Conference 11

Appeals for peace sent to Hitler and Mussolini.
Sentence 2: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 3: Good morning.
Sentence 4: Q. Good morning, Mr. President.
Sentence 5: THE PRESIDENT: Quite a few people missing today.
Sentence 6: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 7: Yes, the real correspondents this time.
Sentence 8: My Lord, is this all there are?
Sentence 9: They don't know what they are missing.
Sentence 10: The cause for this—what I am going to read to you—is that for the second or third time I feel that we in this country should leave no stone unturned to prevent war and, having made this decision, the State Department, the Secretary of State and I both slept last night with a clearer conscience than we had had before.
Sentence 11: In other words, in doing this, we are doing what we can to save humanity from war.
Sentence 12: We sent off at nine o'clock last night the following two dispatches:
Sentence 13: The first is directly from me to Chancellor Hitler.
Sentence 14: The other is from the Secretary of State—approximately the same message—to Premier Mussolini.
Sentence 15: You understand the reason for that, that he is the Premier, and Chancellor Hitler is the head of the State.
Sentence 16: The messages are identical except for the transposition of the word, in one or two places, of "Italy" for "Germany.
Sentence 17: "
Now I thought, as I went over it, that there are one or two little background things I could give you as I read it.
Sentence 18: It is very, very short, but let me interpolate as I go through it.
Sentence 19: This [interpolation] is not for quote or attribution—it is background for you.
Sentence 20: "THE WHITE HOUSE
"April 14, 1939
"His Excellency
Adolf Hitler,
Chancellor of the German Reich,
Berlin, Germany
"You realize, I am sure, that throughout the world hundreds of millions of human beings are living today in constant fear of a new war or even a series of wars.
Sentence 21: "The existence of this fear-and the possibility of such a conflict—are of definite concern to the people of the United States for whom I speak, as they must also be to the peoples of the other nations of the entire Western Hemisphere.
Sentence 22: "You will note that I did not assume to speak for them.
Sentence 23: I said, "as they must also be for them."
"All of them know that any major war, even if it were to be confined to other continents, must bear heavily on them.
Sentence 24: "—
I did not say "all the people of the Western Hemisphere.
Sentence 25: ""heavily on them during its continuance and also for generations to come.
Sentence 26: "Because of the fact that after the acute tension in which the world has been living during the past few weeks there would seem to be at least a momentary relaxation-because no troops are at this moment on the march—this may be an opportune moment for me to send you this message.
Sentence 27: "
Well, in other words—this is on the background end of it-it has always been a problem for us in this country, if we want to try to do something by way of a message or an appeal for the averting of war, to do it at such time as there would be the greatest prospect of success.
Sentence 28: And there is, of course, less prospect of success in making any appeal when troops are actually on the march or have actually invaded another country.
Sentence 29: I think we can remember that in the last two instances of the ending of independence of two nations, they occurred-both incidents—occurred so fast and with such little warning that there would not have been time for us to make an appeal.
Sentence 30: That was true in the case of the invasion of Czechoslovakia, and also the invasion of Albania.
Sentence 31: The thing was a fait accompli before you could get a cable over to the other side; and, therefore, this seems to be an appropriate time to make this appeal, because there are, at the present moment, no troops that are marching to the invasion of, or have invaded, some neighboring State.
Sentence 32: It is, let us say, a moment of peace.
Sentence 33: "On a previous occasion I have addressed you in behalf of the settlement of political, economic, and social problems by peaceful methods and without resort to arms.
Sentence 34: "
That was the time of Munich, last fall.
Sentence 35: "But the tide of events seems to have reverted to the threat of arms.
Sentence 36: If such threats continue, it seems inevitable that much of the world must become involved in common ruin.
Sentence 37: All the world, victor nations, vanquished nations, and neutral nations will suffer.
Sentence 38: "
If I were writing a story I would stress the word "neutral"-"neutral nations"—in recognition of the fact that there would be, undoubtedly, a great many neutral nations but that they would suffer also.
Sentence 39: "I refuse to believe that the world is, of necessity, such a prisoner of destiny.
Sentence 40: On the contrary, it is clear that the leaders of great nations have it in their power to liberate their peoples from the disaster that impends.
Sentence 41: It is equally clear that in their own minds and in their own hearts the peoples themselves desire that their fears be ended.
Sentence 42: "
I think that applies to peoples in every nation of the world, literally without exception.
Sentence 43: "It is, however, unfortunately necessary to take cognizance of recent facts.
Sentence 44: "Three nations in Europe and one in Africa have seen their independent existence terminated.
Sentence 45: A vast territory in another independent Nation of the Far East has been occupied by a neighboring State.
Sentence 46: Reports, which we trust are not true, insist that further acts of aggression are contemplated against still other independent nations.
Sentence 47: Plainly the world is moving toward the moment when this situation must end in catastrophe unless a more rational way of guiding events is found.
Sentence 48: "
And, in connection with that, just for background, I think some of you will remember on the way down to Key West, I said that it might be possible that I would have to curtail my cruise and come back here.
Sentence 49: A good many people laughed at me for saying that.
Sentence 50: Of course it wasn't alarmist—it was just straight, plain fact.
Sentence 51: It was not necessary for me to return, but, of course, after that Czechoslovakia ceased to exist, and, when a thing like that happens, nobody can tell how far the fire will spread.
Sentence 52: There is a good deal that has come out in the press about the danger of things on the other side; and of course those published stories are implemented for us by the confidential information we receive from our own people on the other side.
Sentence 53: I think we recognize not only from what you read but also add to that what we know from Government sources, that it is a pretty dangerous, pretty anxious moment in Europe.
Sentence 54: "You have repeatedly asserted that you and the German people have no desire for war.
Sentence 55: If this is true there need be no war.
Sentence 56: "Nothing can persuade the peoples of the earth that any governing power has any right or need to inflict the consequences of war on its own or any other people save in the cause of self-evident home defense.
Sentence 57: "
I used the words "home defense" because nobody can get around that.
Sentence 58: That means "home defense" and does not mean defense thousands and thousands of miles away.
Sentence 59: "In making this statement we as Americans speak not through selfishness or fear or weakness.
Sentence 60: If we speak now it is with the voice of strength and with friendship for mankind.
Sentence 61: It is still clear to me that international problems can be solved at the council table.
Sentence 62: "It is therefore no answer to the plea for peaceful discussion for one side to plead that unless they receive assurances beforehand that the verdict will be theirs, they will not lay aside their arms.
Sentence 63: In conference rooms, as in courts, it is necessary that both sides enter upon the discussion in good faith, assuming that substantial justice will accrue to both; and it is customary and necessary that they leave their arms outside the room where they confer.
Sentence 64: "
I would like to have used the American expression but they would not have understood it—"Park your guns outside."
Sentence 65: However, this is a diplomatic way of saying the same thing.
Sentence 66: "I am convinced that the cause of world peace would be greatly advanced if the nations of the world were to obtain a frank statement relating to the present and future policy of Governments.
Sentence 67: "Because the United States, as one of the Nations of the Western Hemisphere, is not involved in the immediate controversies which have arisen in Europe, I trust that you may be willing to make such a statement of policy to me as the head of a nation far removed from Europe in order that I, acting only with the responsibility and obligation of a friendly intermediary, may communicate such declaration to other nations now apprehensive as to the course which the policy of your Government may take.
Sentence 68: "
I want to make one thing perfectly clear.
Sentence 69: You know English as well as I do.
Sentence 70: I said here, "acting only with the responsibility and obligation of a friendly intermediary."
Sentence 71: I mean "intermediary" and not "mediator."
Sentence 72: Now, they are entirely different words.
Sentence 73: You see the point?
Sentence 74: Of course there will be a danger—this is of course off the record—that some of our friends on the Hill and some newspaper owners will try to make it appear that I will mediate.
Sentence 75: There is nothing in it at all.
Sentence 76: I am the post office, the telegraph office- in other words, the method of communication.
Sentence 77: That is what I mean by "intermediary."
"Are you willing to give assurance—"
Here is the question:
"Are you willing to give assurance that your armed forces will not attack or invade the territory or possessions of the following independent nations":
Now we come right down to brass tacks and name them.
Sentence 78: "Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, The Netherlands, Belgium, Great Britain and Ireland, France, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Luxemburg, Poland, Hungary, Rumania, Yugoslavia, Russia, Bulgaria, Greece, Turkey, Iraq, the Arabias, Syria, Palestine, Egypt and Iran."
Sentence 79: Now you have got them all.
Sentence 80: No dodging; there are the whole works.
Sentence 81: "Such an assurance clearly must apply not only to the present day but also to a future sufficiently long to give every opportunity to work by peaceful methods for a more permanent peace.
Sentence 82: I therefore suggest that you construe the word 'future' to apply to a minimum period of assured non-aggression—ten years at the least—a quarter of a century, if we dare look that far ahead.
Sentence 83: "If such assurance is given by your Government, I shall immediately transmit it to the Governments of the nations I have named"
Then there is that whole list on the other side.
Sentence 84: "and I shall simultaneously inquire whether, as I am reasonably sure, each of the nations enumerated above will in turn give like assurance for transmission to you.
Sentence 85: "Reciprocal assurances such as I have outlined will bring to the world an immediate measure of relief.
Sentence 86: "I propose that if it is given, two essential problems shall promptly be discussed in the resulting peaceful surroundings, and in those discussions the Government of the United States will gladly take part."
Sentence 87: Now, be careful!
Sentence 88: Be careful!
Sentence 89: I said "two essential problems" in which we would take part in the discussion.
Sentence 90: "The discussions which I have in mind relate to the most effective and immediate manner through which the peoples of the world can obtain progressive relief from the crushing burden of armament which is each day bringing them more closely to the brink of economic disaster.
Sentence 91: "
There is, of course, nothing new in our taking part in that because we have been doing it for a long, long time.
Sentence 92: The other is the next sentence:
"Simultaneously the Government of the United States would be prepared to take part in discussions looking toward the most practical manner of opening up avenues of international trade to the end that every Nation of the earth may be enabled to buy and sell on equal terms in the world market as well as to possess assurance of obtaining the materials and products of peaceful economic life.
Sentence 93: "
Of course there is nothing new in that because, as you know, we have at all times been ready to confer and have done a great deal of conferring on the economic side of international problems.
Sentence 94: So in that there is nothing, absolutely nothing, new that we have not been doing right along.
Sentence 95: Now you come to the third thing:
"At the same time—"
This is after those reciprocal assurances have been given.
Sentence 96: "At the same time, those Governments other than the United States which are directly interested could undertake such political discussions as they may consider necessary or desirable.
Sentence 97: "
Well, of course all of you who cover the State Department know what that means.
Sentence 98: "Political discussions" relates to boundaries and territories and so forth and so on.
Sentence 99: We do not, of course, enter into that type of discussion.
Sentence 100: We have not done it since Paris and there is no prospect of our doing it.
Sentence 101: Then, finally, just a few short sentences:
"We recognize complex world problems which affect all humanity but we know that study and discussion of them must be held in an atmosphere of peace."
Same old thing—"Park your guns outside.
Sentence 102: "
"Such an atmosphere of peace cannot exist if negotiations are overshadowed by the threat of force or by the fear of war.
Sentence 103: "I think you will not misunderstand the spirit of frankness in which I send you this message.
Sentence 104: Heads of great Governments in this hour are literally responsible for the fate of humanity in the coming years.
Sentence 105: They cannot fail to hear the prayers of their peoples to be protected from the foreseeable chaos of war.
Sentence 106: History will hold them accountable for the lives and the happiness of all—even unto the least.
Sentence 107: "I hope that your answer will make it possible for humanity to lose fear and regain security for many years to come.
Sentence 108: "A similar message is being addressed to the Chief of the Italian Government.
Sentence 109: "FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT"
Sentence 110: Well, I think that covers it.
Sentence 111: Q. When was this message sent?
Sentence 112: THE PRESIDENT: 9.00 o'clock last night.
Sentence 113: Q.
Sentence 114: They got it today?
Sentence 115: THE PRESIDENT: It was three o'clock in the morning in Berlin and Rome, that it was received over there.
Sentence 116: Q.
Sentence 117: May I ask whether the Pan American Union or, through other channels, the Latin American Governments were advised that this action was being taken?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 118: Nobody was advised.
Sentence 119: They were informed by cable during the night through our ministers and ambassadors down there and undoubtedly they are receiving this just about this moment.
Sentence 120: And in the same way, our embassies and legations in Europe were advised of it by cable last night.
Sentence 121: Q. There has been no consultation on this matter among the Latin American—
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 122: [interposing] Absolutely not.
Sentence 123: Great Britain, France or any other nation in the world was not consulted in any way and did not know anything about it.
Sentence 124: You "got a mouthful"; better run.
