Sentence 1: 1939 Annual Message Congress

Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Senate and the Congress:
In Reporting on the state of the nation, I have felt it necessary on previous occasions to advise the Congress of disturbance abroad and of the need of putting our own house in order in the face of storm signals from across the seas.
Sentence 2: As this Seventy-sixth Congress opens there is need for further warning.
Sentence 3: A war which threatened to envelop the world in flames has been averted; but it has become increasingly clear that world peace is not assured.
Sentence 4: All about us rage undeclared wars—military and economic.
Sentence 5: All about us grow more deadly armaments—military and economic.
Sentence 6: All about us are threats of new aggression military and economic.
Sentence 7: Storms from abroad directly challenge three institutions indispensable to Americans, now as always.
Sentence 8: The first is religion.
Sentence 9: It is the source of the other two—democracy and international good faith.
Sentence 10: Religion, by teaching man his relationship to God, gives the individual a sense of his own dignity and teaches him to respect himself by respecting his neighbors.
Sentence 11: Democracy, the practice of self-government, is a covenant among free men to respect the rights and liberties of their fellows.
Sentence 12: International good faith, a sister of democracy, springs from the will of civilized nations of men to respect the rights and liberties of other nations of men.
Sentence 13: In a modern civilization, all three—religion, democracy and international good faith- complement and support each other.
Sentence 14: Where freedom of religion has been attacked, the attack has come from sources opposed to democracy.
Sentence 15: Where democracy has been overthrown, the spirit of free worship has disappeared.
Sentence 16: And where religion and democracy have vanished, good faith and reason in international affairs have given way to strident ambition and brute force.
Sentence 17: An ordering of society which relegates religion, democracy and good faith among nations to the background can find no place within it for the ideals of the Prince of Peace.
Sentence 18: The United States rejects such an ordering, and retains its ancient faith.
Sentence 19: There comes a time in the affairs of men when they must prepare to defend, not their homes alone, but the tenets of faith and humanity on which their churches, their governments and their very civilization are founded.
Sentence 20: The defense of religion, of democracy and of good faith among nations is all the same fight.
Sentence 21: To save one we must now make up our minds to save all.
Sentence 22: We know what might happen to us of the United States if the new philosophies of force were to encompass the other continents and invade our own.
Sentence 23: We, no more than other nations, can afford to be surrounded by the enemies of our faith and our humanity.
Sentence 24: Fortunate it is, therefore, that in this Western Hemisphere we have, under a common ideal of democratic government, a rich diversity of resources and of peoples functioning together in mutual respect and peace.
Sentence 25: That Hemisphere, that peace, and that ideal we propose to do our share in protecting against storms from any quarter.
Sentence 26: Our people and our resources are pledged to secure that protection.
Sentence 27: From that determination no American flinches.
Sentence 28: This by no means implies that the American Republics disassociate themselves from the nations of other continents.
Sentence 29: It does not mean the Americas against the rest of the world.
Sentence 30: We as one of the Republics reiterate our willingness to help the cause of world peace.
Sentence 31: We stand on our historic offer to take counsel with all other nations of the world to the end that aggression among them be terminated, that the race of armaments cease and that commerce be renewed.
Sentence 32: But the world has grown so small and weapons of attack so swift that no nation can be safe in its will to peace so long as any other powerful nation refuses to settle its grievances at the council table.
Sentence 33: For if any government bristling with implements of war insists on policies of force, weapons of defense give the only safety.
Sentence 34: In our foreign relations we have learned from the past what not to do.
Sentence 35: From new wars we have learned what we must do.
Sentence 36: We have learned that effective timing of defense, and the distant points from which attacks may be launched are completely different from what they were twenty years ago.
Sentence 37: We have learned that survival cannot be guaranteed by arming after the attack begins—for there is new range and speed to offense.
Sentence 38: We have learned that long before any overt.
Sentence 39: military act, aggression begins with preliminaries of propaganda, subsidized penetration, the loosening of ties of good will, the stirring of prejudice and the incitement to disunion.
Sentence 40: We have learned that God-fearing democracies of the world which observe the sanctity of treaties and good faith in their dealings with other nations cannot safely be indifferent to international lawlessness anywhere.
Sentence 41: They cannot forever let pass, without effective protest, acts of aggression against sister nations-acts which automatically undermine all of us.
Sentence 42: Obviously they must proceed along practical, peaceful lines.
Sentence 43: But the mere fact that we rightly decline to intervene with arms to prevent acts of aggression does not mean that we must act as if there were no aggression at all.
Sentence 44: Words may be futile, but war is not the only means of commanding a decent respect for the opinions of mankind.
Sentence 45: There are many methods short of war, but stronger and more effective than mere words, of bringing home to aggressor governments the aggregate sentiments of our own people.
Sentence 46: At the very least, we can and should avoid any action, or any lack of action, which will encourage, assist or build up an aggressor.
Sentence 47: We have learned that when we deliberately try to legislate neutrality, our neutrality laws may operate unevenly and unfairly—may actually give aid to an aggressor and deny it to the victim.
Sentence 48: The instinct of self-preservation should warn us that we ought not to let that happen any more.
Sentence 49: And we have learned something else—the old, old lesson that probability of attack is mightily decreased by the assurance of an ever ready defense.
Sentence 50: Since 1931, nearly eight years ago, world events of thunderous import have moved with lightning speed.
Sentence 51: During these eight years many of our people clung to the hope that the innate decency of mankind would protect the unprepared who showed their innate trust in mankind.
Sentence 52: Today we are all wiser—and sadder.
Sentence 53: Under modern conditions what we mean by "adequate defense"—a policy subscribed to by all of us—must be divided into three elements.
Sentence 54: First, we must have armed forces and defenses strong enough to ward off sudden attack against strategic positions and key facilities essential to ensure sustained resistance and ultimate victory.
Sentence 55: Secondly, we must have the organization and location of those key facilities so that they may be immediately utilized and rapidly expanded to meet all needs without danger of serious interruption by enemy attack.
Sentence 56: In the course of a few days I shall send you a special message making recommendations for those two essentials of defense against danger which we cannot safely assume will not come.
Sentence 57: If these first two essentials are reasonably provided for, we must be able confidently to invoke the third element, the underlying strength of citizenship—the self-confidence, the ability, the imagination and the devotion that give the staying power to see things through.
Sentence 58: A strong and united nation may be destroyed if it is unprepared against sudden attack.
Sentence 59: But even a nation well armed and well organized from a strictly military standpoint may, after a period of time, meet defeat if it is unnerved by self-distrust, endangered by class prejudice, by dissension between capital and labor, by false economy and by other unsolved social problems at home.
Sentence 60: In meeting the troubles of the world we must meet them as one people—with a unity born of the fact that for generations those who have come to our shores, representing many kindreds and tongues, have been welded by common opportunity into a united patriotism.
Sentence 61: If another form of government can present a united front in its attack on a democracy, the attack must and will be met by a united democracy.
Sentence 62: Such a democracy can and must exist in the United States.
Sentence 63: A dictatorship may command the full strength of a regimented nation.
Sentence 64: But the united strength of a democratic nation can be mustered only when its people, educated by modern standards to know what is going on and where they are going, have conviction that they are receiving as large a share of opportunity for development, as large a share of material success and of human dignity, as they have a right to receive.
Sentence 65: Our nation's program of social and economic reform is therefore a part of defense, as basic as armaments themselves.
Sentence 66: Against the background of events in Europe, in Africa and in Asia during these recent years, the pattern of what we have accomplished since 1933 appears in even clearer focus.
Sentence 67: For the first time we have moved upon deep-seated problems affecting our national strength and have forged national instruments adequate to meet them.
Sentence 68: Consider what the seemingly piecemeal struggles of these six years add up to in terms of realistic national preparedness.
Sentence 69: We are conserving and developing natural resources-land, water power, forests.
Sentence 70: We are trying to provide necessary food, shelter and medical care for the health of our population.
Sentence 71: We are putting agriculture—our system of food and fibre supply—on a sounder basis.
Sentence 72: We are strengthening the weakest spot in our system of industrial supply- its long smouldering labor difficulties.
Sentence 73: We have cleaned up our credit system so that depositor and investor alike may more readily and willingly make their capital available for peace or war.
Sentence 74: We are giving to our youth new opportunities for work and education.
Sentence 75: We have sustained the morale of all the population by the dignified recognition of our obligations to the aged, the helpless and the needy.
Sentence 76: Above all, we have made the American people conscious of their interrelationship and their interdependence.
Sentence 77: They sense a common destiny and a common need of each other.
Sentence 78: Differences of occupation, geography, race and religion no longer obscure the nation's fundamental unity in thought and in action.
Sentence 79: We have our difficulties, true—but we are a wiser and a tougher nation than we were in 1929, or in 1932.
Sentence 80: Never have there been six years of such far-flung internal preparedness in our history.
Sentence 81: And this has been done without any dictator's power to command, without conscription of labor or confiscation of capital, without concentration camps and without a scratch on freedom of speech, freedom of the press or the rest of the Bill of Rights.
Sentence 82: We see things now that we could not see along the way.
Sentence 83: The tools of government which we had in 1933 are outmoded.
Sentence 84: We have had to forge new tools for a new role of government operating in a democracy—a role of new responsibility for new needs and increased responsibility for old needs, long neglected.
Sentence 85: Some of these tools had to be roughly shaped and still need some machining down.
Sentence 86: Many of those who fought bitterly against the forging of these new tools welcome their use today.
Sentence 87: The American people, as a whole, have accepted them.
Sentence 88: The Nation looks to the Congress to improve the new machinery which we have permanently installed, provided that in the process the social usefulness of the machinery is not destroyed or impaired.
Sentence 89: All of us agree that we should simplify and improve laws if experience and operation clearly demonstrate the need.
Sentence 90: For instance, all of us want better provision for our older people under our social security legislation.
Sentence 91: For the medically needy we must provide better care.
Sentence 92: Most of us agree that for the sake of employer and employee alike we must find ways to end factional labor strife and employer-employee disputes.
Sentence 93: Most of us recognize that none of these tools can be put to maximum effectiveness unless the executive processes of government are revamped—reorganized, if you will—into more effective combination.
Sentence 94: And even after such reorganization it will take time to develop administrative personnel and experience in order to use our new tools with a minimum of mistakes.
Sentence 95: The Congress, of course, needs no further information on this.
Sentence 96: With this exception of legislation to provide greater government efficiency, and with the exception of legislation to ameliorate our railroad and other transportation problems, the past three Congresses have met in part or in whole the pressing needs of the new order of things.
Sentence 97: We have now passed the period of internal conflict in the launching of our program of social reform.
Sentence 98: Our full energies may now be released to invigorate the processes of recovery in order to preserve our reforms, and to give every man and woman who wants to work a real job at a living wage.
Sentence 99: But time is of paramount importance.
Sentence 100: The deadline of danger from within and from without is not within our control.
Sentence 101: The hour-glass may be in the hands of other nations.
Sentence 102: Our own hour-glass tells us that we are off on a race to make democracy work, so that we may be efficient in peace and therefore secure in national defense.
Sentence 103: This time element forces us to still greater efforts to attain the full employment of our labor and our capital.
Sentence 104: The first duty of our statesmanship is to bring capital and man-power together.
Sentence 105: Dictatorships do this by main force.
Sentence 106: By using main force they apparently succeed at it—for the moment.
Sentence 107: However we abhor their methods, we are compelled to admit that they have obtained substantial utilization of all their material and human resources.
Sentence 108: Like it or not, they have solved, for a time at least, the problem of idle men and idle capital.
Sentence 109: Can we compete with them by boldly seeking methods of putting idle men and idle capital together and, at the same time, remain within our American way of life, within the Bill of Rights, and within the bounds of what is, from our point of view, civilization itself?
Sentence 110: We suffer from a great unemployment of capital.
Sentence 111: Many people have the idea that as a nation we are overburdened with debt and are spending more than we can afford.
Sentence 112: That is not so.
Sentence 113: Despite our Federal Government expenditures the entire debt of our national economic system, public and private together, is no larger today than it was in 1929, and the interest thereon is far less than it was in 1929.
Sentence 114: The object is to put capital—private as well as public—to work.
Sentence 115: We want to get enough capital and labor at work to give us a total turnover of business, a total national income, of at least eighty billion dollars a year.
Sentence 116: At that figure we shall have a substantial reduction of unemployment; and the Federal Revenues will be sufficient to balance the current level of cash expenditures on the basis of the existing tax structure.
Sentence 117: That figure can be attained, working within the framework of our traditional profit system.
Sentence 118: The factors in attaining and maintaining that amount of national income are many and complicated.
Sentence 119: They include more widespread understanding among business men of many changes which world conditions and technological improvements have brought to our economy over the last twenty years—changes in the interrelationship of price and volume and employment, for example- changes of the kind in which business men are now educating themselves through excellent opportunities like the so-called "monopoly investigation.
Sentence 120: They include a perfecting of our farm program to protect farmers' income and consumers' purchasing power from alternate risks of crop gluts and crop shortages.
Sentence 121: They include wholehearted acceptance of new standards of honesty in our financial markets.
Sentence 122: They include reconcilement of enormous, antagonistic interests—some of them long in litigation—in the railroad and general transportation field.
Sentence 123: They include the working out of new techniques—private, state and federal—to protect the public interest in and to develop wider markets for electric power.
Sentence 124: They include a revamping of the tax relationships between federal, state and local units of government, and consideration of relatively small tax increases to adjust inequalities without interfering with the aggregate income of the American people.
Sentence 125: They include the perfecting of labor organization and a universal ungrudging attitude by employers toward the labor movement, until there is a minimum of interruption of production and employment because of disputes, and acceptance by labor of the truth that the welfare of labor itself depends on increased balanced out-put of goods.
Sentence 126: To be immediately practical, while proceeding with a steady evolution in the solving of these and like problems, we must wisely use instrumentalities, like Federal investment, which are immediately available to us.
Sentence 127: Here, as elsewhere, time is the deciding factor in our choice of remedies.
Sentence 128: Therefore, it does not seem logical to me, at the moment we seek to increase production and consumption, for the Federal Government to consider a drastic curtailment of its own investments.
Sentence 129: The whole subject of government investing and government income is one which may be approached in two different ways.
Sentence 130: The first calls for the elimination of enough activities of government to bring the expenses of government immediately into balance with income of government.
Sentence 131: This school of thought maintains that because our national income this year is only sixty billion dollars, ours is only a sixty billion dollar country; that government must treat it as such; and that without the help of government, it may some day, somehow, happen to become an eighty billion dollar country.
Sentence 132: If the Congress decides to accept this point of view, it will logically have to reduce the present functions or activities of government by one-third.
Sentence 133: Not only will the Congress have to accept the responsibility for such reduction; but the Congress will have to determine which activities are to be reduced.
Sentence 134: Certain expenditures we cannot possibly reduce at this session, such as the interest on the public debt.
Sentence 135: A few million dollars saved here or there in the normal or in curtailed work of the old departments and commissions will make no great saving in the Federal budget.
Sentence 136: Therefore, the Congress would have to reduce drastically some of certain large items, very large items, such as aids to agriculture and soil conservation, veterans' pensions, flood control, highways, waterways and other public works, grants for social and health security, Civilian Conservation Corps activities, relief for the unemployed, or national defense itself.
Sentence 137: The Congress alone has the power to do all this, as it is the appropriating branch of the government.
Sentence 138: The other approach to the question of government spending takes the position that this Nation ought not to be and need not be only a sixty billion dollar nation; that at this moment it has the men and the resources sufficient to make it at least an eighty billion dollar nation.
Sentence 139: This school of thought does not believe that it can become an eighty billion dollar nation in the near future if government cuts its operations by one-third.
Sentence 140: It is convinced that if we were to try it, we would invite disaster—and that we would not long remain even a sixty billion dollar nation.
Sentence 141: There are many complicated factors with which we have to deal, but we have learned that it is unsafe to make abrupt reductions at any time in our net expenditure program.
Sentence 142: By our common sense action of resuming government activities last spring, we have reversed a recession and started the new rising tide of prosperity and national income which we are now just beginning to enjoy.
Sentence 143: If government activities are fully maintained, there is a good prospect of our becoming an eighty billion dollar country in a very short time.
Sentence 144: With such a national income, present tax laws will yield enough each year to balance each year's expenses.
Sentence 145: It is my conviction that down in their hearts the American public—industry, agriculture, finance—want this Congress to do whatever needs to be done to raise our national income to eighty billion dollars a year.
Sentence 146: Investing soundly must preclude spending wastefully.
Sentence 147: To guard against opportunist appropriations, I have on several occasions addressed the Congress on the importance of permanent long-range planning.
Sentence 148: I hope, therefore, that following my recommendation of last year, a permanent agency will be set up and authorized to report on the urgency and desirability of the various types of government investment.
Sentence 149: Investment for prosperity can be made in a democracy.
Sentence 150: I hear some people say, "This is all so complicated.
Sentence 151: There are certain advantages in a dictatorship.
Sentence 152: It gets rid of labor trouble, of unemployment, of wasted motion and of having to do your own thinking.
Sentence 153: "
My answer is, "Yes, but it also gets rid of some other things which we Americans intend very definitely to keep—and we still intend to do our own thinking."
It will cost us taxes and the voluntary risk of capital to attain some of the practical advantages which other forms of government have acquired.
Sentence 154: Dictatorship, however, involves costs which the American people will never pay: The cost of our spiritual values.
Sentence 155: The cost of the blessed right of being able to say what we please.
Sentence 156: The cost of freedom of religion.
Sentence 157: The cost of seeing our capital confiscated.
Sentence 158: The cost of being cast into a concentration camp.
Sentence 159: The cost of being afraid to walk down the street with the wrong neighbor.
Sentence 160: The cost of having our children brought up, not as free and dignified human beings, but as pawns molded and enslaved by a machine.
Sentence 161: If the avoidance of these costs means taxes on my income; if avoiding these costs means taxes on my estate at death, I would bear those taxes willingly as the price of my breathing and my children breathing the free air of a free country, as the price of a living and not a dead world.
Sentence 162: Events abroad have made it increasingly clear to the American people that dangers within are less to be feared than dangers from without.
Sentence 163: If, therefore, a solution of this problem of idle men and idle capital is the price of preserving our liberty, no formless selfish fears can stand in the way.
Sentence 164: Once I prophesied that this generation of Americans had a rendezvous with destiny.
Sentence 165: That prophecy comes true.
Sentence 166: To us much is given; more is expected.
Sentence 167: This generation will "nobly save or meanly lose the last best hope of earth. . . .
Sentence 168: The way is plain, peaceful, generous, just-a way which if followed the world will forever applaud and God must forever bless."
