Sentence 1: 1939 Excerpts From The Press Conference 83

(Panama conference—Proclamations concerning neutrality and limited national emergency- Special session of the Congress and repeal of the arms embargo- Food prices—Additions to the Army, Navy and Marine Corps—Prevention of subversive propaganda and sabotage.)
Sentence 2: THE PRESIDENT: No. 1, for the conference in Panama, the Under Secretary of State
Sentence 3: [Mr. Sumner Welles] is going down there to represent this country.
Sentence 4: I think that covers that.
Sentence 5: Next, I have signed the Proclamation of Neutrality as between the United States and South Africa which, we have been officially informed, is in a state of war.
Sentence 6: That is the Union of South Africa.
Sentence 7: No. 3, the Proclamation of Neutrality in regard to Canada is drafted but final action by the Canadian Parliament, as you know, has not yet been taken.
Sentence 8: And the Proclamation I am waiting for is the Proclamation of Limited Emergency, which I will have to explain to you when I get it.
Sentence 9: It will be here in a minute or two.
Sentence 10: So, in the meantime, if there are any questions you want to ask, go ahead.
Sentence 11: One question will be on the report on the Athenia and that will be given out by the State Department sometime today.
Sentence 12: It will be the literal
Sentence 13: and, I think, verbatim copy of the reports from our two Naval Attaches in London.
Sentence 14: It is simply given out as their report without comment, comment being, I think, unnecessary.
Sentence 15: Q.
Sentence 16: Can you tell us of the extra session situation?
Sentence 17: THE PRESIDENT: On the special session, there isn't any news.
Sentence 18: It is still in the study period.
Sentence 19: I cannot tell you any more because that is the simple truth.
Sentence 20: Naturally, I have been talking with various members of the House and the Senate for some time;but, literally, there isn't any news because there has been no decision.
Sentence 21: Q. Is the action of the leaders favorable to a special session, that is, generally?
Sentence 22: THE PRESIDENT: I cannot tell you that.
Sentence 23: Q. Is it still just a question of when, or is it both a question of when and whether?
Sentence 24: THE PRESIDENT: There has never been a question of whether;and the date last week was between the first of September and the second of January, and it is now between the eighth of September and the second of January.
Sentence 25: Q. Is there any doubt at all or should anyone have any doubt about your intention to ask for a repeal of the present neutrality law, the so-called neutrality law?
Sentence 26: THE PRESIDENT: I think you could assume that.
Sentence 27: Q.
Sentence 28: May I go further with that question?
Sentence 29: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 30: Yes.
Sentence 31: Q.
Sentence 32: I hear, although I am unable to touch the evidence or produce the evidence, that there is a rising sentiment in the country for the repeal of the embargo.
Sentence 33: Are you conscious of that, or would it affect you in any way at all?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 34: I think I had better not answer—
Q.
Sentence 35: [interposing] You do not mind my asking?
THE PRESIDENT: No—because you people are just as good a judge of that as I am.
Sentence 36: Q.
Sentence 37: The report is also that you are going to have a short session, limited to neutrality.
Sentence 38: THE PRESIDENT: I think I told you last week—and the only way I can answer that is in the same way—that as far as I can tell at the present time, it seems unnecessary to ask for anything except a repeal of the embargo—action on the so-called neutrality law.
Sentence 39: Q. In other words, it would not run into the next regular session?
Sentence 40: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 41: No. I see absolutely no reason for it because, as you know, while Congress is not in session there are always a number of small things which it would be nice to have acted on, but it is not essential that they be acted on.
Sentence 42: Q. Mr. President, there have been some intimations and suggestions that the Administration might recommend changes in the Johnson Act.
Sentence 43: Has anything been crystallized on that?
Sentence 44: THE PRESIDENT: I never heard of it.
Sentence 45: That is a new one.
Sentence 46: Q. Anything on profiteering?
THE PRESIDENT: Not that I know of.
Sentence 47: In other words, the statement that I could not think of anything that was absolutely necessary other than the neutrality angle covers almost all cases.
Sentence 48: Q.
Sentence 49: Can you tell us anything about the profiteering studies that are being planned?
Sentence 50: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Sentence 51: The only thing I can say on that is to mention some of the things that happened yesterday and the day before: there are a lot of perfectly well-meaning people who went to retail stores and found that some of the prices had gone up on foodstuffs; and there was also the case of two or three people in the White House, who could not buy more than five pounds of sugar.
Sentence 52: Of course the real fact is that there is an actual surplus of food of every variety in this country.
Sentence 53: There is no conceivable shortage; and, as Secretary Wallace said yesterday, all of this fear of shortage of sugar, or a shortage of flour, or a shortage of this, that or the other thing, is ridiculous.
Sentence 54: All of us ought to do our best to make people realize that they must not get excited about something that does not exist.
Sentence 55: There is not any shortage; and we have plenty of everything in the way of foodstuffs.
Sentence 56: On the question of prices, there is so much surplus in all the normal commodities that, while prices of foodstuffs which have been exceedingly low may come up a little bit, there will not be a repetition of some of the prices we had during the World War.
Sentence 57: There is an entirely different situation today.
Sentence 58: Q. Will the United States, at the Panama Conference, attempt to inject into the program this plan to keep the Western Hemisphere free from war?
Sentence 59: THE PRESIDENT: I think the State Department in conjunction with all the other Governments which will be represented are, at the present time, studying what they call an agenda.
Sentence 60: I do not know as yet what it is going to be.
Sentence 61: In other words, the agenda will be determined by the nations sitting there-not by the United States alone but by all the nations together. . . .
Sentence 62: Q. Have you that Proclamation before you?
Sentence 63: THE PRESIDENT: I have
Sentence 64: and here she is.
Sentence 65: I am going into this with a little care just so—what shall I say—scarehead stories won't be written.
Sentence 66: This is all off the record that I am talking about.
Sentence 67: Now, a thing called "Declaration of National Emergency" is provided for in a great many statutes, not just one; and if one were to issue a Proclamation of National.
Sentence 68: Emergency without any limitation, scare headlines might be justified, because, under that, the Executive could do all kinds of things.
Sentence 69: What I want to do, and what all of you want to do, is to make it clear that there is no intention and no need of doing all of these things that could be done.
Sentence 70: There is need of doing a few, what might be called simple and minor things within peacetime authorizations.
Sentence 71: In other words, there is no thought, in any shape, manner or form, of putting the Nation, either in its defenses or in its internal economy, on a war basis.
Sentence 72: That is one thing we want to avoid.
Sentence 73: We are going to keep the Nation on a peace basis, in accordance with peacetime authorizations.
Sentence 74: That is why the title of this Proclamation really tells the true story: (Reading)
"PROCLAIMING A NATIONAL EMERGENCY IN CONNECTION
WITH THE OBSERVANCE, SAFEGUARDING, AND
ENFORCEMENT OF NEUTRALITY AND THE STRENGTHENING
OF THE NATIONAL DEFENSE WITHIN THE LIMITS OF
PEACETIME AUTHORIZATIONS"
Sentence 75: In other words, I want to make it clear that in no shape, manner or form, do we do anything except remain on a peace basis.
Sentence 76: The Government will function in accordance with the regular departmental and agency method.
Sentence 77: That is very clear.
Sentence 78: We are not setting up all kinds of war boards, administrative boards, such as we used when we were in a state of war.
Sentence 79: (Reading)
"BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA A PROCLAMATION
"WHEREAS a proclamation issued by me on September 5, 1939, proclaimed the neutrality of the United States in the war now unhappily existing between certain nations; and:
Sentence 80: "WHEREAS this state of war imposes on the United States certain duties with respect to the proper observance, safeguarding, and enforcement of such neutrality, and the strengthening of the national defense within the limits of peacetime authorizations";
That is the main point to get across.
Sentence 81: [Continuing reading]
"and
"WHEREAS measures required at this time call for the exercise of only a limited number of the powers granted in a national emergency:
"NOW, THEREFORE, I, FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT, President of the United States of America, do proclaim that a national emergency exists in connection with and to the extent necessary for the proper observance, safeguarding, and enforcing of the neutrality of the United States and the strengthening of our national defense within the limits of peacetime authorizations.
Sentence 82: Specific directions and authorizations will be given from time to time for carrying out these two purposes."
Sentence 83: Now, in order to illustrate, at 12:30 the Attorney General is bringing in three or four Executive Orders.
Sentence 84: One of them, for example, relates to the Army.
Sentence 85: The authorized peacetime strength of the Army is 280,000 men.
Sentence 86: The Executive Order relating to the Army will allow the Army to recruit and call back what they call the first line reserves-ex-corporals and sergeants and things like that—a little above this year's authorized appropriations but not anywhere near the 280,000 that are authorized as peacetime strength.
Sentence 87: I cannot give you the figures now because the final figure has not yet been decided.
Sentence 88: And there is no use running to the War Department and the Navy Department to find out because they do not know.
Sentence 89: I have not fixed it yet.
Sentence 90: I will between now and 12:30 but, when I fix that upper limit, it will be way below 280,000.
Sentence 91: That will be given out at 12:30.
Sentence 92: Now, the object of that, in the case of the Army, is—I suppose the easiest phrase to use is—to fill in the chinks, enough men to man certain defenses such as the Panama Canal, enough men to Puerto Rico, enough men to fill up certain arms of the service from which there have been in the last few years, you might say, borrowings in order to take care of some emergency things like aviation that we were trying to build up.
Sentence 93: It is to repay these borrowings of men that we made from various branches of the service, which today.
Sentence 94: have these chinks in them.
Sentence 95: The same thing will apply to the Navy.
Sentence 96: As I remember it, the total authorized peace strength of the Navy is 180,000 men.
Sentence 97: At the present time we have between 115,000 and 120,000.
Sentence 98: Under this Executive Order relating to the Navy, we shall have additional recruiting and calling back of the first line of reserves, in other words, experienced Navy enlisted men who served their eight years or twelve years or sixteen years or twenty years.
Sentence 99: We shall increase the present 115,000 to 120,000 by a comparatively small number; but we shall not go to the 180,000 of authorized peace strength.
Sentence 100: The object of that is, again, to fill in certain chinks or gaps.
Sentence 101: The fleet is only 85 per cent manned—the active fleet ships in commission.
Sentence 102: It is to fill in that 15 per cent so that all batteries, all watches, can be made full-time.
Sentence 103: It is to put into commission some of what they call the priority I class of the out-of-commission destroyers, not by any means all of them.
Sentence 104: We have, I think, about 116; and we shall probably put back into active commission only about a third of that number.
Sentence 105: Then with the Marine Corps, we shall get a small additional number—again not up to the authorized peace strength of the Marine Corps—to fill in certain gaps in the Marine Corps.
Sentence 106: So, you see it is not exactly a startling thing to do; it is an ordinary precautionary measure.
Sentence 107: The third Executive Order will merely carry out the existing law that says, "In the event of a national emergency there is appropriated $500,000 to the State Department for the aid of Americans in foreign countries."
Sentence 108: This makes that $500,000 available to the State Department.
Sentence 109: And the fourth relates to what you might say is a combination of neutrality and national defense.
Sentence 110: It provides for an addition to the personnel of certain investigating agencies of the Government to protect this country against—I suppose the easiest way of putting it is—some of the episodes, some of the things that happened over here in 1914 and 1915 and 1916 and the beginning of 1917, before we got into the war.
Sentence 111: There was sabotage; there was a great deal of propaganda by both belligerents, and a good many definite plans laid in this country by foreign governments to try to sway American public opinion.
Sentence 112: We do not have to specify.
Sentence 113: The older men who are here can remember some of the episodes of that time.
Sentence 114: It is to guard against that, and against the spread by any foreign nation of propaganda in this country which would tend to be subversive—I believe that is the word- of our form of Government.
Sentence 115: Those are the only four things we are doing at this time and we see no other major needs for the future.
Sentence 116: There may be some minor things which will call for Executive Orders in the future; but nothing that can be, in any way, construed as putting this country on a war basis.
Sentence 117: We are going on just as we always have, in running the Government.
Sentence 118: Q. Referring to the increase in the Army and Navy, are you making any increases in the National Guard?
Sentence 119: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 120: Yes, this will cover that.
Sentence 121: Q.
Sentence 122: In that connection, Mr. President, I assume that will cost money in addition to appropriations that have been made by Congress.
Sentence 123: Under this Proclamation, is it possible to spend beyond the appropriations of Congress for that purpose?
Sentence 124: THE PRESIDENT: Let us take a simple example—suppose we in-crease the Army by one-twelfth or eight and something per cent, we have to feed those extra people, we have to clothe them, and we have to pay them.
Sentence 125: That means that the Army appropriation for food, clothing and pay would only last until the first of June; and we should have to get a deficiency appropriation from the next Congress to make up that deficiency.
Sentence 126: It goes into the Deficiency Bill, just as so many other laws allow the departments to create deficiencies out of current funds and then go back to the Congress in the spring for funds in the Deficiency Bill to carry the department through to the end of the year.
Sentence 127: Q. Mr. President, where will that $500,000 for the State Department come from for repatriating Americans?
Sentence 128: THE PRESIDENT: It is a regular appropriation like all others.
Sentence 129: Q.
Sentence 130: It is there, but needs this Proclamation to be effective?
Sentence 131: Is that what you mean?
Sentence 132: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 133: Yes.
Sentence 134: Q. Does this Proclamation of an emergency have any effect upon shipping or foreign exchange?
Sentence 135: THE PRESIDENT: I do not think so.
Sentence 136: No.
Q.
Sentence 137: Mr. President, will any of these recommissioned destroyers be used as convoys?
Sentence 138: THE PRESIDENT: Not that I know of.
Sentence 139: Q.
Sentence 140: They will be assigned to patrol work, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 141: Yes.
