Sentence 1: 1939 Press Conference 14

Q.
Sentence 2: According to dispatches from Berlin, Hitler expects you to settle the European hash.
Sentence 3: Anything to say about that?
Sentence 4: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 5: No.
Sentence 6: Q. Are you going to make any move?
Sentence 7: THE PRESIDENT: Nothing to say on it, Constantine
Sentence 8: [Mr. Brown].
Sentence 9: Q.
Sentence 10: Any news from Russia in reply to the representations?
Sentence 11: THE PRESIDENT: Not yet.
Sentence 12: That is why, at this particular time, I am not giving out the actual text.
Sentence 13: I can tell you—what shall I say?—the chronology of it.
Sentence 14: On Monday of this week we all began to worry about the situation in the Baltic because it looked as if it might be heading towards an extension of wars.
Sentence 15: On Tuesday several representatives of Scandinavian Nations, as you know, saw the Secretary of State and some of them came in to tell me that they also were very much concerned.
Sentence 16: There was, at no time, any suggestion of joint action on our part with them.
Sentence 17: That was Tuesday.
Sentence 18: Wednesday—I drafted Wednesday morning a personal message to President Kalinin.
Sentence 19: I waited until the Secretary of State got back Wednesday afternoon, around two o'clock; and we edited it a little.
Sentence 20: It still remained a purely personal message from me to President Kalinin, a message which, as the State Department said yesterday, expressed the hope that nothing would be done which would disturb the peaceful relations in the Baltic or the independence of Finland.
Sentence 21: That was sent of[ on Wednesday afternoon.
Sentence 22: Of course, obviously, since it was intended merely as an expression of our interest and hope, it was not given to the Press.
Sentence 23: I know you, all of you, ninety-nine per cent of you, will understand why—because the action had not been completed.
Sentence 24: It was not until Thursday, yesterday, that the message was actually delivered.
Sentence 25: I am not making the text of it public at this time, because I do not want to do anything that would let it be assumed or construed as being, in any way, a pressure move on our part.
Sentence 26: That is the easiest way of putting it.
Sentence 27: Now you have the gist of the message, and pretty soon you will probably have the text of the message.
Sentence 28: Q. Mr. President, this message does entail an answer, sir, does it not?
Sentence 29: THE PRESIDENT: Oh, there will undoubtedly be an acknowledgment, at least.
Sentence 30: Q. Mr. President, are you to receive the delegates or the officers of the Intergovernmental Committee on refugees next week?
Sentence 31: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 32: Yes.
Sentence 33: They are coming in on the seventeenth, Tuesday.
Sentence 34: Q.
Sentence 35: That is a change of date?
Sentence 36: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 37: Yes, because one of them does not get in until Monday, Monday afternoon.
Sentence 38: I am having them to lunch at the White House on Tuesday.
Sentence 39: That might be called the opening meeting-the lunch will be-and then, at the end of the lunch, I shall probably read them a little something, a message of some kind that you will have copies of.
Sentence 40: Then, after the lunch, they will go over to the State Department and go into session.
Sentence 41: Q. Getting back to this message, Ambassador Steinhardt was with Molotoff
Sentence 42: [Foreign Commissar V. M. Molotoff of Moscow] for over an hour.
Sentence 43: Anything additional to add?
THE PRESIDENT: No.
Q. just presentation of the message?
Sentence 44: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 45: Yes.
Sentence 46: Q.
Sentence 47: Do you have anything on reports that Italian tankers are fueling German submarines of[ the coast?
Sentence 48: THE PRESIDENT: There is no news on that; and I suppose that is a very good example of our real, honest efforts to tell the Press everything that we can, properly.
Sentence 49: Necessarily—and again I know that ninety-nine per cent of you will understand it-
Sentence 50: it means that we are not giving to the Press unverified rumors.
Sentence 51: There are all kinds of rumors that come in off our coasts and from the West Indies and Central and South America every day; and we do not give them out unless we believe that they have been fully verified.
Sentence 52: There was a rumor on this Italian tanker thing, the story I read this morning.
Sentence 53: It is not in verifiable form; and therefore I have said nothing about it, and I cannot say anything about it.
Sentence 54: It is a very good illustration.
Sentence 55: The stories that we have given out about the non-American submarines and other ships are stories that we believe to have been fully verified.
Sentence 56: A great many of them come up.
Sentence 57: A fisherman comes in and says, "I saw a submarine."
Sentence 58: Well, we do not give that out as a fact.
Sentence 59: I am trying to confine our statements to things we really, honestly know about.
Sentence 60: Q.
Sentence 61: We have a story from two sources which I would like to ask if it has come to your attention.
Sentence 62: Two Members of Congress, Joe Starnes and somebody else, said this morning that six submarines were operating in the Caribbean.
Sentence 63: Now, have you heard that one?
Sentence 64: Has it come to you in any shape or form?
Sentence 65: THE PRESIDENT: Not in any shape, manner or form.
Sentence 66: Q.
Sentence 67: When we saw you last on Tuesday, you had no word in direct manner or form from Berlin.
Sentence 68: Is that still true?
Sentence 69: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 70: Yes, that is true. . .
Sentence 71: .
Sentence 72: Q. Mr. President, yesterday Senator La Follette suggested that we use part of our supply of idle gold, not only to make direct investments in Latin America but also to provide local credit facilities through stabilization of their banking systems.
Sentence 73: Can you comment on that suggestion?
Sentence 74: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 75: Well, it is a matter which has been under study for three years, and is definitely not only under continued study, but, in the case of one or two countries, it has almost reached a negotiation stage.
Sentence 76: I cannot say anything more because it has not actually reached the negotiation stage.
