Sentence 1: 1939 Excerpts From The Press Conference 84

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: Well, what news have you got?
Sentence 3: Q.
Sentence 4: We have a lot of questions, sir.
Sentence 5: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 6: Somebody think of something?
Sentence 7: Q. Can you straighten out the maritime situation for us, sir?
Sentence 8: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 9: Working on it.
Sentence 10: That is all I can say.
Sentence 11: Q.
Sentence 12: When may we expect anything?
Sentence 13: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know; I cannot prognosticate.
Sentence 14: Q.
Sentence 15: Any week-end plans, sir?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 16: No; staying right here.
Sentence 17: Q. Have you made up your plan for tomorrow as far as Arlington is concerned?
Sentence 18: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 19: Yes, going out to do the regular thing.
Sentence 20: We shall go out at quarter of eleven and get there for the ceremony and come back afterwards.
Sentence 21: In the evening I am taking part in the Red Cross appeal, at 10:30.
Sentence 22: At eleven o'clock this morning I asked some of the seamen labor union people to come in, the longshoremen, because I am approaching—that is about all I can say about the maritime question—I am approaching it from the human angle as well as the property angle, which a good many people seem to have completely overlooked, callously enough.
Sentence 23: Q. Did you say "as well as the property"?
Sentence 24: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 25: Yes, as well as the property angle.
Sentence 26: In other words, we have a problem which was created by the statute.
Sentence 27: There are about—well, it is awfully hard to give any exact figure but I would say, offhand—between twenty-five and thirty-five American flag ships that have been running in between the ports that are now outlawed, in other words, belligerent ports or danger zone ports.
Sentence 28: As a result of the legislation, they are now tied up or will be by the time they get back from current voyages.
Sentence 29: Now, that means not only twenty-five to thirty-five ships but also their crews.
Sentence 30: There are several things that we are going to talk about at eleven o'clock in relation to the human problem.
Sentence 31: The first relates to something that cannot be done until the next session of Congress, and that is to try to apply the social security law to the crews of ships as well as to people who work in industrial plants.
Sentence 32: That would mean the same system as we use in industry, and would cover both old age pensions and unemployment insurance.
Sentence 33: As far as I can tell now, I shall make a recommendation to cover that, to the next session of the Congress.
Sentence 34: However, that does not give immediate relief; and I am working now with the Maritime Commission on a project for giving training under the auspices of the Maritime Commission to a portion, not all, of these sailors and officers who have been thrown out of work because of the neutrality law going into effect.
Sentence 35: We hope that we shall be able to give additional training to a substantial portion of those people who have been put on the beach because the ships have been laid up.
Sentence 36: Q.
Sentence 37: What kind of training, Mr. President?
Sentence 38: THE PRESIDENT: Seamen's training—officers' training.
Sentence 39: Q.
Sentence 40: Any naval training, necessarily?
THE PRESIDENT: Oh, no.
Sentence 41: Merchant ship training.
Sentence 42: Q. Does that have an income attached to it?
Sentence 43: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 44: Yes.
Sentence 45: Q. Mr. President, the transfer of ships to foreign flags would not affect the number of American seamen put on the beach, would it?
Sentence 46: THE PRESIDENT: No, not a bit.
Sentence 47: The third thing which I am working on—I do not want to hold out any hope that it will be effected, but it would be of some assistance in this problem- is the use by the Government of some of these twenty-five to thirty-five ships in order to go and fetch certain materials that the Government is purchasing under existing law for—well, I think we have called it—"stock piles," haven't we?
Sentence 48: We are spending a good deal of money to buy various war materials to store up in case of future need.
Sentence 49: There is $10,000,000 appropriated for that at the present time.
Sentence 50: We also have, as you know, an agreement which went into effect last summer with Great Britain, by which we do some swapping.
Sentence 51: We are swapping some cotton for rubber and tin.
Sentence 52: Now, that rubber and tin have to be sent for to the East Indies; and it will take additional ships to bring it, that is to say, ships over and above the normal commercial needs of that area, to bring that rubber and tin to this country.
Sentence 53: I believe—I do not know whether the State Department said anything about this or not—I think that there is an agreement, or it is being discussed with the British, by which they will take the cotton from this country to England.
Sentence 54: Does anybody know if that has been announced?
Sentence 55: Q.
Sentence 56: It has not been announced.
Sentence 57: THE PRESIDENT: Of course, obviously, we cannot send American cotton to England in American flag ships.
Sentence 58: Q. Mr. President, do you regard the transfer in September, and the Maritime Commission's approval given to the transfer, of fifteen Standard Oil tankers to Panama as, perhaps, setting a precedent?
Sentence 59: THE PRESIDENT: No, no.
Sentence 60: Of course it is perfectly legal.
Sentence 61: You see, unfortunately, in spite of what some people say, the President of the United States is more or less bound by the law.
Sentence 62: It is a curious and strange idea which has been challenged in the past few days by people who, in the past, have been most intent on confining the President of the United States to the strict letter of the law.
Sentence 63: It is one of those anomalies which columnists are very apt to enjoy.
Sentence 64: Go ahead, you are one.
Sentence 65: Q.
Sentence 66: In the last analysis, wouldn't the interests of these American seamen probably best be served by the maintenance instead of the abandonment of these ships, even if it does involve the transfer to another flag?
Sentence 67: THE PRESIDENT: I do not think it makes much difference to the poor fellows who are on the beach anyway.
Sentence 68: If the ship stays at the dock, they are on the beach; if the ship is transferred or sold to some other nation, they are still on the beach.
Sentence 69: Q.
Sentence 70: But, after the war is over, they can return to American registry and the American seamen would still, theoretically, have these jobs open to them?
Sentence 71: THE PRESIDENT: You are doing a bit of theorizing that, after they have been used for war purposes for some time, they will still be worth transferring back to the American flag.
Sentence 72: I doubt it.
Sentence 73: They are all on their last legs now.
Sentence 74: Q. Could you give us the legal interpretation?
Sentence 75: You said the transfer of the Standard Oil ships did not set a precedent and that, contrary to what the columnists say, you are bound by the law.
Sentence 76: Does that mean you interpret that law as saying the ships can be transferred?
Sentence 77: THE PRESIDENT: There is no question that the ships can be legally transferred or sold.
Sentence 78: We are simply trying to work out other methods.
Sentence 79: That is as far as we can go now.
Sentence 80: That means transfer with full retention of title in the present owning company.
Sentence 81: Q.
Sentence 82: Any thought of transferring any of these idle ships to the South American and other routes?
Sentence 83: THE PRESIDENT: You know, that is a thing as to which the average layman has the happy thought—and a great many of them do these days—that it is a perfectly easy thing.
Sentence 84: There are a lot of routes—South America, Australia, China and so forth and so on.
Sentence 85: Why not keep them under the American flag and put them on these other routes?
Sentence 86: It is a beautiful thought.
Sentence 87: But a ship goes from one place to another not just for the pleasure of making the voyage.
Sentence 88: They do it in order to carry goods or passengers or both and, therefore, it becomes a problem of whether there are enough goods and passengers to justify the voyage.
Sentence 89: You can be quite sure that if there should be enough goods and passengers to keep these ships under the American flag on other routes, they would be kept under the American flag.
Sentence 90: But, unfortunately, we have a shortage of goods and passengers.
Sentence 91: Q. Is there a thought of organizing another company to keep these ships?
Sentence 92: THE PRESIDENT: No, not that I know of.
Sentence 93: I have not heard. . . .
Sentence 94: Q.
Sentence 95: Can you tell us something of the conferences with Lewis and Green, other than on the maritime situation?
Sentence 96: THE PRESIDENT: Nothing to tell that you or I could write.
Sentence 97: Just continuing conversations; that is as far as we got.
Sentence 98: Q. Mr. Green intimated very plainly that you asked that the conferences be resumed, and he said his committee was ready any time the C.I.O. was.
Sentence 99: Mr. Lewis came out and referred us to you.
Sentence 100: THE PRESIDENT: I may not have discussed the same thing with Mr. Lewis.
Q.
Sentence 101: He said it was the same thing.
Sentence 102: THE PRESIDENT: I am sure you cannot get a story out of it.
Sentence 103: I doubt if I could tell you one myself.
Sentence 104: We haven't got to the point where we can write any kind of a story.
Sentence 105: Incidentally, the more stories which are not strictly accurate go out, the more it hurts the possibility of getting labor together.
Sentence 106: That is really the fact. . . .
