Sentence 1: 1939 Address The Jackson Day Dinner 0

Chairman Farley, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen:
Sentence 2: Last night I was thinking about this gathering, about our Democratic Party, and what we ought to do to help it.
Sentence 3: I decided to go right to headquarters—not to Jim Farley's headquarters, but something much further back.
Sentence 4: So I put in a radio call for General Andrew Jackson.
Sentence 5: "Young fellow," he said to me, "I don't know what's bothering you.
Sentence 6: "
I said, "General, it's about the Democratic Party.
Sentence 7: I'm very fond of it myself, but the Republicans are saying that it's rotting away like a pollywog's tail, and some of our fellows are worried.
Sentence 8: Is there anything that we ought to do about it?"
"Son," replied the General, "my eyes are getting old and I'm some distance away, but from what I can see from here the only trouble with your fellows is that they've been feeding too well and they scare easily.
Sentence 9: "Young fellow, do you realize that if you live out the term you now have, you'll be the only President of any party who's had two full terms with a majority of his own party in both the House and the Senate all the time, the only President since who do you suppose?—why, son, since James Monroe-and he left the White House nearly one hundred and fourteen years ago!
Sentence 10: "Woodrow Wilson didn't have majorities as safe as you have now when he first came into office.
Sentence 11: "And as for me, son, my Democrats licked old Nick Biddle when we didn't even have a majority in the Senate and had few votes to spare in the House.
Sentence 12: Tell your fellows to learn to count.
Sentence 13: Some of you Democrats today get scared and let the other fellows tell you you've lost an election just because you don't have majorities so big that you can go to sleep without sentries.
Sentence 14: "Why, there is nothing wrong with your fellows.
Sentence 15: Tell them to learn how to count and get to shooting at the enemy again and they will be all right.
Sentence 16: "
I am passing on that advice of Old Hickory.
Sentence 17: But despite the General's optimism, I think this is a good time for the Democratic Party to "examine its conscience," to think over most seriously what we have done that we should not have done and what we have left undone that we should have done.
Sentence 18: Let us start by being realistic.
Sentence 19: From 1920 on, the Republican Party fed too well and got fat and lazy.
Sentence 20: It gave the American people a "do-nothing" government for which they suffered through the terrible days.
Sentence 21: That was one reason why in 1932 they turned to the Democratic Party.
Sentence 22: The other reason was that the Democratic Party, during that summer and autumn, had a program of action and sounded sincere.
Sentence 23: Four years went by, and in the election of 1936 the Republican Party looked like one of those straddle-bugs I used to see on the pond at Hyde Park.
Sentence 24: The Democratic Party, however, was carrying out its pledges of 1932 and was still fighting.
Sentence 25: Hence the overwhelming victory of 1936.
Sentence 26: Millions who had never been Democrats gave us the power in 1932, and again in 1936, to get certain things done.
Sentence 27: And our party can continue in power only so long as it can, as a party, get those things done which non-Democrats, as well as Democrats, put it in power to do.
Sentence 28: I have been looking back through some of the history books.
Sentence 29: In 1834, when Jackson was President, a shrewd observer wrote a letter which I think we ought to read and take to heart today.
Sentence 30: He said in it:
"There are two parties here—one which would do anything to put down Jackson, and the other anything to sustain him.
Sentence 31: But there is a third party—and a very large one—which cares not a straw about who is President but who anxiously desire to see some measure of relief for the country, let it operate against or in favor of whom it may.
Sentence 32: "
Today, as in Jackson's day, a majority of the people want only a President who honestly cares for them and a party anxiously and unitedly seeking a way to serve them without regard to personal or political fortunes.
Sentence 33: Less than half of the voters of America are Democrats.
Sentence 34: Less than half are Republicans.
Sentence 35: But more than half of the voters are for the Democratic Party whenever the Democratic Party is for the majority of the people.
Sentence 36: I welcome the return of the Republican Party to a position where it can no longer excuse itself for not having a program on the ground that it has too few votes.
Sentence 37: During recent years, Republican impotence has caused powerful interests, opposed to genuine democracy, to push their way into the Democratic Party, hoping to paralyze it by dividing its councils.
Sentence 38: The first effect of the gains made by the Republican Party in the recent elections should be to restore to it the open allegiance of those who entered our primaries and party councils with deliberate intent to destroy our party's unity and effectiveness.
Sentence 39: The second effect of these gains should be to bring us real Democrats together and to line up with us those from other parties, those who belong to no party at all, who also preach the liberal gospel, so that, firmly allied, we may continue a common constructive service to the people of the country.
Sentence 40: For if these independent voters have the conviction that the Democratic Party will remain a liberal party, they will be the first to perceive what I here and now prophesy: that the Republican leadership, conservative at heart, will still seek to run with the hare and hunt with the hounds, talking of balanced budgets out of one side of its mouth and in favor of opportunist raids on the Treasury out of the other.
Sentence 41: Yes, opportunists they have been—opportunists they still are: see how they have tried to shuffle New Deal cards.
Sentence 42: The Republican first New Deal joyfully went along with our New Deal while we were getting them off the spot and keeping them out of bankruptcy—or worse.
Sentence 43: The Republican second New Deal said to its members, "Support New Deal objectives but oppose legislation to put them into effect.
Sentence 44: "
The Republican third New Deal—1938 model-issued this order: "Get for the voters of your district all the New Deal benefits, promise them bigger and better benefits—any old kind of benefits that any old group asks for—but never mention how those benefits will be paid for."
Those tactics are wrong even for a party out of power, and if continued for another two years, they can hardly give to the voters of the Nation any real confidence in the Republican Party or its leadership.
Sentence 45: We Democrats, however, have to act as a party in power.
Sentence 46: And we cannot hold the confidence of the people if we cannot avoid wrangling except by agreeing to sit still and do nothing.
Sentence 47: If there are nominal Democrats who as a matter of principle are convinced that our party should be a conservative party—a Democratic Tweedledum to a Republican Tweedledee—it is on the whole better that the issue be drawn within the party, that the fight be fought out, and that if the Tweedledums are defeated they join the Tweedledees.
Sentence 48: But, my friends, the prospects of such a knock-down and drag-out fight are far more remote than members of the opposition would have you believe.
Sentence 49: The people of the country are not deceived when honest debate and an honest effort to work things out for the good of the country are labeled dissension or called bad blood by those outside of the party whose wish is father to the thought.
Sentence 50: Those persons hate to admit it but the fact remains that such debate on our part over the period of the past six years has borne six crops of good fruit.
Sentence 51: If we deliver in full on our contract to the American people we need never fear the Republican Party so long as it commands the support of—and in fact down underneath is actually directed by—the same people who have owned it for several generations.
Sentence 52: For the American Liberty League—unless I am incorrectly informed- still functions as a vehicle for political contributions and the spreading of shopworn propaganda.
Sentence 53: Jackson and the party as he led it delivered on the barrel-head.
Sentence 54: Up to the very last Jackson delivered for the common people he believed in, and for the national unity which he did so much to create.
Sentence 55: On his very last day in the White House he vetoed a bill supported by the opposition and many of his own party which surrendered to the states and to a thousand, warring, petty local interests, the Federal Government's responsibility for husbanding the surplus funds in the Federal Treasury for the benefit of the whole Nation.
Sentence 56: Along side this statement in my manuscript I note the letters N. B. which in dead Latin stand for "nota bene," or in live English, "take good notice.
Sentence 57: "
Jackson's successor, reputedly a smart politician, could not keep the Democratic Party in power because he and they drifted from principles to politics.
Sentence 58: He and they were turned out at the next national election in 1840, because they failed to keep the pork barrel locked up in the cellar, and because they failed to deliver what they had promised to anyone except themselves.
Sentence 59: And again my manuscript bids me say "N. B.—take good notice.
Sentence 60: "
Let this be another thought for 1940, In 1840 the new Whig President, William Henry Harrison, elected on a red fire- note the color—hard cider, sky-is-the-limit campaign, backed by the descendants of Hamiltonian aristocrats and by disgruntled Democrats, made his first tender of the Secretaryship of the Treasury in his Cabinet—to whom do you suppose?
Sentence 61: To none other than old Nicholas Biddle himself, Nicholas Biddle, the money changer whom Andrew Jackson had so soundly trounced and driven from the Temple.
Sentence 62: From Andrew Jackson to Nicholas Biddle—four short years.
Sentence 63: And again I say, "N. B.—take good notice.
Sentence 64: "
A full generation—twenty years—passed by before the principle of Andrew Jackson's true democracy came back to life in the White House with the next real Democrat, Abraham Lincoln.
Sentence 65: And, parenthetically, he was chosen President only by the founding of a new party.
Sentence 66: Let me ask two obvious questions.
Sentence 67: Does anyone maintain that the Democratic Party from 1840 to 1876 was by any wild stretch of the imagination the party of Thomas Jefferson or of Andrew Jackson?
Sentence 68: To claim that is absurd.
Sentence 69: Does anyone maintain that the Republican Party from 1868 to 1938 (with the possible exception of a few years under Theodore Roosevelt) was the party of Abraham Lincoln?
Sentence 70: To claim that is equally absurd.
Sentence 71: My casual acquaintance—shall I say my casual acquaintance?—with political life for twenty-five years and my more serious reading of prior history lead me to observe that the American people have greatly changed in their attitude toward government in this—our— generation.
Sentence 72: We of this modern day take our politics less seriously.
Sentence 73: And we take our government more seriously.
Sentence 74: In the old days the ideal candidate, whom smart managers always looked for, was, as someone has described a former President, a man with "a protective reputation, an obvious but unalert integrity. . .
Sentence 75: a complete absence of plan or even of thought."
Sentence 76: It might be well for both parties in considering their candidates for President and Vice President to apply that formula, or to be more strictly accurate, the reverse of that formula, to the dozens who, like Barkis, seem even at this moment to be very, very willing.
Sentence 77: In the old days, for the bulk of the population, the elections were only a seasonal diversion—a circus with an oratorical sideshow—with the real job done by quiet economic and social-perhaps I should say back room—pressures behind the scenes.
Sentence 78: Today there is emerging a real and forceful belief on the part of the great mass of the people that honest, intelligent and courageous government can solve many problems which the average individual cannot face alone in a world where there are no longer one hundred and twenty acres of good land free for everybody.
Sentence 79: Today the voting public watches and analyzes every move made by those who govern them—whether in the Executive or the Legislative or the Judicial branches of our Government-with clearer perception and greater insistence on efficiency and honesty.
Sentence 80: Today in that analyzing they are less and less influenced by the red fire and the hard cider ballyhoo of newspaper owners or political orators who adhere to the practices of a century ago.
Sentence 81: Yes, we have learned to go behind the headlines and behind the leads and behind the.
Sentence 82: glittering generalities in order to analyze and reanalyze, using our own thinking processes and not somebody else's before we make up our own minds.
Sentence 83: You remember what Abraham Lincoln said about fooling the people.
Sentence 84: That was in the 1860's.
Sentence 85: I should say that no wise political leader of 1939 will take it as a safe working rule that you can fool many of the people any of the time.
Sentence 86: This new generation, since the war, believes more than did its fathers in the precept "I am my brother's keeper."
Sentence 87: It believes in realities, economic and spiritual realities, where its fathers did not bother much to go beneath catchwords.
Sentence 88: And it is national in its outlook.
Sentence 89: Youth today will not listen to a sectional conception of party politics—to a combination of two or three parts of the country against another part, or farmers against labor or business against the state.
Sentence 90: The younger generation of Americans, by a very large majority, intends to keep on "going places" with the New Deal.
Sentence 91: Do not overlook this rising generation.
Sentence 92: Its vote rises proportionately each year.
Sentence 93: On Jackson Day every true follower of Jackson asks that the Democratic Party continue to make democracy work.
Sentence 94: In answer to the demands of the American people we have expanded the functions of the Government of the United States.
Sentence 95: We are handling complicated problems of administration with which no other party has ever had to wrestle.
Sentence 96: To do that, we are constantly recruiting lieutenants who will give intense and genuine devotion to the cause of liberal government.
Sentence 97: We have brought to the Government men and women whose first thought is to be of service to their country through their government-men and women with fewer attributes of selfishness and more objectives of clean service than any group I have ever come in contact with in a somewhat long career.
Sentence 98: Almost without exception they are more intent on doing a good job than in keeping themselves on the payrolls.
Sentence 99: Almost without exception they possess that quality of cooperative effort which distinguishes them from the political office-holder of half a century ago.
Sentence 100: We seek and we welcome their cooperation and yours, not only from those who are with us now, but from others who come to see the light.
Sentence 101: We are even willing to accept temporary help.
Sentence 102: But we always bear in mind the story of the Orangemen's parade in North Ireland on the anniversary of the Battle of the Boyne.
Sentence 103: The parade was set but the Orangemen had no bass drum.
Sentence 104: And what is a parade without a bass drum!
Sentence 105: But the captain of the Orangemen had a good personal friend in the captain of the Fenians in the same town.
Sentence 106: He explained his problem to his friend, the captain of the Fenians, and asked him to cooperate by lending the Fenian drum for the Orangemen's parade.
Sentence 107: "Sure," said the captain of the Fenians, "I'll give you my fullest cooperation.
Sentence 108: I will lend you the drum; you couldn't have a decent parade without it."
Sentence 109: "But," he added, with a twinkle in his eye, "since I'm personally responsible for the safety of the drum you'll understand if I have to make one personal condition.
Sentence 110: You'll have to agree to take the drum out of the parade when you get to Queen Street.
Sentence 111: "For that's the corner where we Fenians are going to be laying for you.
Sentence 112: "
If we Democrats lay for each other now, we can be sure that 1940 will be the corner where the American people will be laying for all of us.
Sentence 113: The way to avoid fighting among ourselves is to fight together against the enemies of the American people—inertia, greed, ignorance, shortsightedness, vanity, opportunism- all of the evils that turn man against man.
Sentence 114: It is my belief, and it is the belief of the great majority of those who hear me tonight, that not just for two years to come, but for a generation to come, we will maintain a united front against those enemies of America.
Sentence 115: Let us remember the example of Andrew Jackson, who fought to the last for a united democratic nation.
Sentence 116: If we do that—by the Eternal, we shall never have to strike our colors.
