Sentence 1: 1939 Excerpts From The Press Conference 81

THE PRESIDENT: Be careful of your facial expressions this morning.
Sentence 2: You are being photographed.
Sentence 3: [A still photographer and a movie photographer were taking pictures of the Press Conference, this Press Conference being the first since the beginning of the new crisis in Europe.]
Sentence 4: Q.
Sentence 5: [Mr. Godwin] Where?
THE PRESIDENT: You must look serious.
Sentence 6: That is perfect.
Sentence 7: [Speaking to Mr. Belair] You should not laugh.
Sentence 8: What is everybody coming in for this morning?
Sentence 9: Q.
Sentence 10: We have a big crowd.
Sentence 11: [
It was announced that all of the Press were in the room.]
Sentence 12: THE PRESIDENT: I literally have no news this morning.
Sentence 13: You all know the gravity of the situation.
Sentence 14: There has been no answer as yet from any of the European countries to the messages that were sent yesterday.
Sentence 15: I do not think there is anything else.
Sentence 16: Q. Mr. President, do you have any comment on Senator Borah's sources of information?
Sentence 17: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 18: No. I think the implications that have been made on the air by one or two of my friends were, perhaps, justified.
Sentence 19: Q. Mr. President, do you have any comment on Congressman Fish's activities?
Sentence 20: THE PRESIDENT: No. (Laughter)
Sentence 21: Q. Mr. President...
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 22: [interposing] That soft snicker (laughter), that comes from the Press.
Sentence 23: (Laughter)
Sentence 24: Q. Mr. President, is it too early to have given any thought to the possible cancellation of your western trip?
Sentence 25: THE PRESIDENT: No, Russ
Sentence 26: [Mr. Young], I do not think so yet.
Sentence 27: It is just one of those things—not making any plans ahead, absolutely none.
Sentence 28: I have not cancelled anything and I have not made any more dates.
Sentence 29: Q. Does the trip stand, or until further notice?
Sentence 30: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 31: Yes, and just the same way with the trip going to Hyde Park on Monday night.
Sentence 32: That stands subject to further notice.
Sentence 33: Q. Will the new crisis increase our armament program, specifically the New England air base?
Sentence 34: THE PRESIDENT: Not as of today, no.
Q. Mr. President, do you plan a special session of Congress?
Sentence 35: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 36: Oh, I think I made that perfectly clear.
Sentence 37: Perhaps there was a little confusion on the word "imminent."
Sentence 38: I always think that imminent carries with it the connotation of certainty and I would not regard the present situation as certain to result in war.
Sentence 39: There is not much more to be said about calling the Congress.
Sentence 40: I think we all very devoutly hope that war is not certain.
Sentence 41: Q.
Sentence 42: [Mr. Godwin] Mr. President, there are certain things I should not ask you; but I am going to ask you if you have that devout hope based on any knowledge?
Sentence 43: THE PRESIDENT: Nothing more than you have and we all have.
Sentence 44: In other words, quite frankly, you all know just as much about the situation as I do.
Sentence 45: Q. Mr. President, could you tell us something about the efforts being made to take care of the effects of war on the United States?
Sentence 46: THE PRESIDENT: Of course there isn't really much that is new on that.
Sentence 47: Ever since early September of 1938, we have all been thinking of the steps to be taken in the event that actual war broke out.
Sentence 48: There has been certain machinery which has been prepared, such as on the financial needs, the bringing back of Americans from war zones and things of that kind.
Sentence 49: That machinery has been pretty well perfected during the past year and it is a question of its use—pressing the button at the appropriate time.
Sentence 50: Almost every department of the Government is concerned with that; and probably most of the people I shall see and talk to today from the departments will refer to the use of that machinery if it becomes necessary.
Sentence 51: Q. Mr. President, do you have any Latin American mediator
Sentence 52: [referring to the President's messages to Poland and Germany] in mind?
THE PRESIDENT: No, nobody in mind.
Sentence 53: Q. Mr. President, so far as the cushioning machinery is concerned, would you say that it was at its maximum efficiency now to operate immediately, so far as you know?
Sentence 54: THE PRESIDENT: I would not say maximum.
Sentence 55: I would say better than it has been at any time in the past.
Sentence 56: Nothing is ever perfect. . . .
Sentence 57: Q. Do you expect to go back to Hyde Park, sir, any time soon?
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT: Not if the general world situation remains next Monday as it is today.
Sentence 59: Q.
Sentence 60: Otherwise, you go up about next Monday night?.
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 62: No. I say, if it is as it is today next Monday, I shall stay here.
Sentence 63: Q.
Sentence 64: What has got to happen over there, Mr. President, before you call a special session?
Sentence 65: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 66: I don't think I can go over it again.
Sentence 67: I tried to make it clear.
Sentence 68: And, after all, compared with today's news, that is, at the present time, a rather minor factor in the world news.
Sentence 69: There are other things more important today.
Sentence 70: Q.
Sentence 71: [Mr. Godwin] Mr. President, would you like to have the minutes of this meeting contain our "Happy Birthday" wishes for Mr. Early on Sunday?
Sentence 72: THE PRESIDENT: I think that is a very, very excellent suggestion.
Sentence 73: And to have reached the half century mark!
Sentence 74: Do you remember when we reached the half century mark?
Sentence 75: There is one thing we can tell him: We feel younger today than we did then, so that is at least—
Q.
Sentence 76: [Mr. Godwin, interposing] You may!
Sentence 77: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 78: I am just holding a little hope out to him.
Sentence 79: It is always darkest just before the dawn.
Sentence 80: (Laughter)
Sentence 81: I think the fifties are pretty good, don't you?
