Sentence 1: 1939 Press Conference 10

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: [Addressing Earl Godwin]
Sentence 3: What time did you get up?
Sentence 4: Q.
Sentence 5: [Mr. Godwin] About 3.00 or 3.15, right after you aroused the Nation.
Sentence 6: Felt like I belonged to the village fire department.
Sentence 7: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 8: Yes; you were not the only one.
Sentence 9: Q.
Sentence 10: [Mr. Godwin] I know it.
Sentence 11: I wonder if anybody got Borah up.
Sentence 12: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 13: Yes.
Sentence 14: Where is he?
Sentence 15: Q.
Sentence 16: He went to Poland Springs, Maine.
Sentence 17: [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT: What?
Q. Poland Springs, Maine.
Sentence 18: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 19: Oh, I thought you said Poland.
Sentence 20: That would have been news.
Sentence 21: [It was announced that the Press were all in.]
Sentence 22: THE PRESIDENT: I think a good many of us had a somewhat sleepless night.
Sentence 23: Bill Hassett has told you of what happened at the White House and State Department, beginning at 2.50 A.M. I think that a word of praise should be said for our Diplomatic Service because, without much question, we were advised of the beginning of the invasion here in Washington as early as any other outside nation.
Sentence 24: Ambassador Biddle got through by telephone to Bullitt about 2.35 our time.
Sentence 25: It was a very poor connection; and it is a question as to whether any further telephoning is possible between Paris and Warsaw.
Sentence 26: That we don't know.
Sentence 27: Bullitt began getting through to us at 2.40, and actually did get through at 2.50.
Sentence 28: As Bill, I think., has told you, the first thing I did was, of course, to call up the Secretary of State, and the Under Secretary, and the Secretaries of War and Navy, Then Bill
Sentence 29: [Mr. Hassett] got through to the Press Associations within about a minute after that—I do not think he even stopped to dress—and was on the radio within another minute and a half after that.
Sentence 30: I do not believe at this particular time of this very critical period in the world's history, that there is anything which I can say, except to ask for full cooperation of the Press throughout the country in sticking as closely as possible to facts.
Sentence 31: Of course that will be the best thing for our own Nation, and, I think, for civilization.
Sentence 32: There is nothing that can be said at the present time on some of the things that almost might be called "local."
Sentence 33: I would include within the term "local" for the present time such questions as: when Congress will be called; the proclamation of neutrality, etc.
Sentence 34: All of those things must await developments, obviously.
Sentence 35: Things are happening on the other side today, and probably will tomorrow, which will be important factors in the consideration of these local things—I would say these items of American action.
Sentence 36: I hope particularly that there won't be unsubstantiated rumors put out, whether they originate here or elsewhere, without checking.
Sentence 37: It is a very simple thing to check either with the State Department, or any other department concerned, or with the White House.
Sentence 38: I will cite a very simple example: The Secretary of State called me up about fifteen minutes ago, before I came over here, and said there was a report out—I do not know whether it was printed or not, but if it was printed it would be a pity—that we had sent out a general order for all American merchant ships to return to American ports.
Sentence 39: Now, that kind of thing is confusing to the public mind, and what I hope is that the American public will stick pretty closely to facts.
Sentence 40: I think they will, and, in the long run, they will get the facts anyway.
Sentence 41: As you know, I believe pretty strongly in the common sense American opinion as a whole—the mass opinion of America.
Sentence 42: I do not think there is anything else I can tell you about that you do not know already.
Sentence 43: If you want to ask any questions that can be asked about at this time, it is perfectly all right.
Sentence 44: Q.
Sentence 45: [Mr. Phelps Adams] I think probably what is uppermost in the minds of all the American people today is, "Can we stay out?"
Sentence 46: Would you like to make any comment at this time on that situation?
Sentence 47: THE PRESIDENT: Only this, that I not only sincerely hope so, but I believe we can; and that every effort will be made by the Administration so to do.
Sentence 48: Q.
Sentence 49: May we make that a direct quote?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 50: Yes.
Sentence 51: Q.
Sentence 52: May we have it again?[The stenographer read the President's statement, to wit, "Only this, that I not only sincerely hope so, but I believe we can; and that every effort will be made by the Administration so to do."]
Q. Mr. President, I suppose it is somewhat a matter of routine to ask if you have anything to say about Secretary Hull's visit with you before the Conference?
Sentence 53: THE PRESIDENT: Just this usual batch of dispatches; and they are coming in now at the rate of one every ten minutes-in fact, they are coming in at the rate of one every five minutes.
Sentence 54: Q. From all over?
THE PRESIDENT: All over.
Sentence 55: Q. Mr. President, are you considering any changes in the Bloom neutrality law?
Sentence 56: THE PRESIDENT: I have not considered anything in the last few hours.
Sentence 57: That follows what I said before.
Sentence 58: Q. Did you see Ambassador Wilson?
Sentence 59: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 60: Ambassador Wilson presented his resignation as Ambassador to Germany, and it was accepted; and he has been assigned to special duty in the State Department.
Sentence 61: Q. Presented today?
Sentence 62: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 63: Today, yes.
Sentence 64: Q.
Sentence 65: Has anyone been named to fill that place?
Sentence 66: THE PRESIDENT: I cannot answer questions like that.
Sentence 67: Q. Mr. President, would you indicate what those duties are that he was assigned to?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 68: I do not think we are ready to announce that yet.
Sentence 69: Q. Mr. President, did you say a while ago when Congress is called or whether Congress is called?
Sentence 70: THE PRESIDENT: I said, "When."
Sentence 71: Q. Will you say whether that means definitely Congress will be called, Mr. President?
Sentence 72: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 73: Well, it means between September first and January second.
Sentence 74: Q.
Sentence 75: [Mr. Godwin] That's right.
Sentence 76: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 77: There you are; you asked for it.
Sentence 78: (Laughter)
MR. GODWIN:
Sentence 79: I will say, "Thank you, Mr. President," if the rest of the gentlemen are willing to agree.
Sentence 80: THE PRESIDENT: I really cannot give you anything more.
