Sentence 1: 1939 Excerpts From The Press Conference 85

Q. Mr. President, good morning.
Sentence 2: How are you?
Sentence 3: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 4: Russ
Sentence 5: [Mr. Young], how is the infant coming along?
Sentence 6: Q.
Sentence 7: [Mr. Young] Very well indeed.
Sentence 8: What about the big seventy pound fish you did not catch?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 9: Yes.
Sentence 10: Did you notice the newspaper accuracy on it?
Sentence 11: Q.
Sentence 12: [Mr. Godwin] There has been a good deal of faking on that since Jonah's whale.
Sentence 13: Q. Pa [General Watson] says that he has got fifty dollars that says he caught the biggest fish.
Sentence 14: Is that right?
Sentence 15: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 16: Pa always catches the biggest fish.
Sentence 17: No.
Sentence 18: As a matter of fact, I caught far and away the best fish on the trip.
Sentence 19: I never saw one before.
Sentence 20: It was a ten-inch mackerel.
Sentence 21: I had him for breakfast and it was the most delicious fish I ever ate.
Sentence 22: Q. How did you know it was a mackerel?
Sentence 23: THE PRESIDENT: It had all the fins.
Sentence 24: Q. How big are they ordinarily?
Sentence 25: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 26: Three feet; two or three feet.
Sentence 27: Q. Hadn't you ought to have thrown him back?
Sentence 28: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know if there is any law on that but any-way it is inside of me now, so it is safe.
Sentence 29: Gosh, it was good.
Sentence 30: It was the most delicious I ever tasted.
Sentence 31: Q. Mr. President, I caught a ten-inch trout.
Sentence 32: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 33: But this mackerel was better than any trout I ever tasted.
Sentence 34: Q.
Sentence 35: It was that long and that round (indicating); like an eel.
Sentence 36: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 37: Oh, you mean sea trout.
Sentence 38: They are all right if you eat them within an hour, otherwise they get soft.
Sentence 39: Q.
Sentence 40: Yes.
Sentence 41: We cut them up and salt them in brine.
Sentence 42: Q.
Sentence 43: [Mr. Young] A big gate today.
Sentence 44: THE PRESIDENT: Did you ever try baking a fish in mud?
Sentence 45: It is the most delicious thing in the world.
Sentence 46: It is all solid and then you crack it open.
Sentence 47: You use nice good, clean clay.
Sentence 48: Q. Is that so?
Sentence 49: THE PRESIDENT: We have answered all the questions in the front row while you were all coming in in the back row.
Sentence 50: Q. Did you hear about the House vote on the lending bill?
Sentence 51: THE PRESIDENT: I did.
Sentence 52: I have not had an analysis on it yet.
Sentence 53: Q.
Sentence 54: Any comment on it?
Sentence 55: THE PRESIDENT: How did it line up?
Sentence 56: Q. 193 to 166 refusal to help the rule.
Sentence 57: There were 147 Democrats, the count showed, joining the Republicans.
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT: Practically a solid Republican vote?
Sentence 59: Q.
Sentence 60: Yes; very few opposed, one or two.
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT: I think this, by way of comment: We have to look at the results if we do not get legislation at this session.
Sentence 62: If we had been able to start the lending program, the effect of it would have been felt by industry within from sixty to ninety days.
Sentence 63: In other words, orders would have begun to flow in to industrial plants.
Sentence 64: That would have put people to work and, almost automatically, a certain proportion of those people put to work would have been taken off the relief rolls, thereby accomplishing the fact of reducing Government expenditures for relief, thereby reducing taxes to the average taxpayer and, at the same time, giving employment without permanent cost to the Government or to the taxpayers.
Sentence 65: So, the net result is, from that point of view, that the failure of the bill is automatically going to cost the taxpayers of the United States quite a lot of money, a good many hundreds of millions of dollars and, at the same time, will mean that a large number of industrial plants will not have their production stepped up in the same way as if the bill had gone through.
Sentence 66: There will be more people who will have to be taken care of on relief than if the bill had gone through.
Sentence 67: That is perfectly obvious.
Sentence 68: Of course, the people who were responsible for the failure to adopt the rule have an absolute right to make that determination, so there can be no possible criticism of the action of Congress; except that there is an absolute right on the part of the taxpayers of the country and the people on relief in the country and the industrial plants of the country to know exactly where the responsibility lies and, of course, an equal right to ask the names of the people or parties who voted against the rule.
Sentence 69: Now, of course that can all be reduced, very simply, to figures.
Sentence 70: I have not had any chance to have the thing reduced to figures of dollars or of human beings, but it is a very simple thing to figure out how many dollars would have gone out, let us say within a year, under the lending bill if it had gone through.
Sentence 71: From past experience, we know how many people, very definitely, how many people are put to work for every dollar spent on public improvements of various kinds.
Sentence 72: So, if you figure the number of dollars that would have been spent within a year on public works by the lending method, you will be able to find out the number of people who would have been put to work under that program within a year, and, per contra, you can see how many people will fail to get work through the failure of the bill.
Sentence 73: And then, we also know, in spending public money, what proportion of people on public works are drawn from relief rolls and it means that those people have to be taken care of on relief, as they are at the present time, rather than removed from the relief rolls.
Sentence 74: That is about the long and short of it.
Sentence 75: Q. Do you recall what those figures are, by any chance?
Sentence 76: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Q.
Sentence 77: On that tax, can you elaborate?
Sentence 78: Can it be interpreted that this new tax bill will call for higher taxes on the public to meet the situation?
Sentence 79: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 80: No.
Q.
Sentence 81: What did you mean when you said it called for higher taxes and more taxes?
Sentence 82: THE PRESIDENT: Because every man that we take care of on the relief rolls costs the people some taxes, does he not?
Sentence 83: Q.
Sentence 84: I thought you meant additional taxes.
Sentence 85: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 86: No.
Q.
Sentence 87: You did not recall those dollars and the people—the proportion.
Sentence 88: Does this refresh your memory at all?
Sentence 89: I may be wrong about it, but for every man on the Public Works payroll, Secretary Ickes used to say there were three or three a half men behind the line.
Sentence 90: Does that bring anything up?
Sentence 91: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 92: Yes.
Sentence 93: That was the figure that was used on all P.W.A. estimates and checked back after the actual work was done, and that was the figure—about three and a half people are put to work behind the lines for every person that is put to work on the job itself.
Sentence 94: Q. Would that apply?
Sentence 95: THE PRESIDENT: That would apply in this case; the same thing.
Sentence 96: Q.
Sentence 97: But you do not know how many dollars it took to put one man to work on P.W.A.?
Sentence 98: You do not recall?
Sentence 99: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Q. Have you any plans to meet the situation while Congress is still in session.
Sentence 100: THE PRESIDENT: I don't think there is anything to be done.
Sentence 101: Q. Will you ask for a larger relief appropriation?
Sentence 102: THE PRESIDENT: No. Congress has determined that already.
Sentence 103: Q. Is it a fair guess that this matter will come up at the next session to be urged by you, sir, at the next session?
Sentence 104: THE PRESIDENT: I do not know, Fred [Mr. Essary].
Sentence 105: I only got to that point.
Sentence 106: I only heard about it about an hour and a half ago.
Sentence 107: I do not think that fast.
Sentence 108: Q.
Sentence 109: There was also talk at the Capitol that the $800,000,000 housing bill will go down also, as a result of this same Congressional attitude?
Sentence 110: THE PRESIDENT: As you know, also on the housing proposition, one of the principal objectives was to begin slum clearance in a great many of the smaller cities of the country.
Sentence 111: The first lot of projects that were put into effect last year have related, you might say, to the most important and crying needs of the larger cities in the country.
Sentence 112: We are now getting down to the point of being able to make a dent in the slum conditions in many of the smaller cities, so that it would affect pretty nearly every state of the Union in the course of the coming year, and that, of course, would mean putting a great many people to work.
Sentence 113: Q.
Sentence 114: That is not yet killed?
Sentence 115: THE PRESIDENT: No, but, as I say, if it is killed also, a great many people would lose a chance for a job which they otherwise would have had.
Sentence 116: Q.
Sentence 117: There is a housing program that has not yet run out of money.
Sentence 118: Isn't that so?
THE PRESIDENT: That is perfectly true but, as you know, there are applications in that will more than take care of all that money, and it takes quite a while after an application first comes in to get the plans and everything all through; and there is not, actually, enough money still available to meet all the applications that are already in.
Sentence 119: Q. Going back to those figures once more, did you determine, even in round numbers, how much employment you figured your lending program would give?
Sentence 120: THE PRESIDENT: No, because that involves my knowing how many people or how many dollars are necessary to put an individual workman to work on a project
Sentence 121: and I do not remember the figure.
Sentence 122: Q. Senator Barkley said in his report to the Banking and Currency Committee that it would create 500,000 new jobs.
Sentence 123: THE PRESIDENT: If he said that, it is probably correct.
Sentence 124: Senator Barkley would not have made the statement unless he had pretty good authority.
Sentence 125: Q.
Sentence 126: We understood that to be the first-line jobs and not those behind the lines.
Sentence 127: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 128: Yes.
Sentence 129: Q. Mr. Jones said there was $1,300,000,000 of lending authority in the R.F.C., and as I read your program, it only called for $700,000,000 expenditure during the next year.
Sentence 130: Couldn't this be very easily taken care of by a little change in the authority of lending?
Sentence 131: That is, couldn't the three billion—
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 132: [interposing] That is essentially what this bill did.
Sentence 133: It was just to take care of these "litty-bitty" things that would make those existing funds available.
Sentence 134: Q.
Sentence 135: But it did not sound "litty-bitty" the way you put it out.
Sentence 136: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 137: Yes.
Sentence 138: You know you can accomplish a lot sometimes with just a few words and it does sound fairly important when a "litty-bitty" change will put five hundred thousand people to work in the front lines.
Sentence 139: Isn't that right?
Sentence 140: That is something to think about.
Sentence 141: Q.
Sentence 142: Of course they contended, up on the Hill, that most of these things the R.F.C. could do now and that they had the three billions.
Sentence 143: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 144: And the R.F.C. would do them now if they had a "litty-bitty" change, and that is what we were asking for in this bill.
Sentence 145: Q. One of the criticisms raised was that you were trying to circumvent the $45,000,000,000 constitutional—
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 146: [interposing] Now, let me ask you a question, a very simple question: Suppose there is a bank that has a million dollars of deposits in your home town, which is a good average small town bank.
Sentence 147: It has a million of deposits.
Sentence 148: Of course that is a direct debt from that bank to the people who put money into it.
Sentence 149: It is a direct debt.
Sentence 150: Would it be fair to you to get up in the Congress, or on the stump, or write an editorial and say, "We wish to call your attention to the fact that the First National Bank of this town has a debt of $1,000,000.
Sentence 151: We wish to call your attention to the fact that this is a tremendous sum for the First National Bank to owe."
Sentence 152: And then you end your editorial or speech on that note.
Sentence 153: Would that be fair?
Sentence 154: And yet, that is what every one of these people are saying.
Sentence 155: Now, of course it would be fair if you said, "Yes, it owes a million dollars but it has assets for that million dollars and more besides because it has all of its paid-up capital in addition to that million dollars, which stands behind the debt of the million to the depositors."
Sentence 156: Therefore is it a fair proposition to say that, when the Government borrows money and then lends that money out—in other words, it is doing just exactly what the First National Bank of Squeedunk is doing—the Government is that much indebted?
Sentence 157: Is that any different case from the case of the First National Bank?
Sentence 158: Isn't it fair to say that the Government has received for its million dollars which it has borrowed and then loaned, certain security, certain assets, certain promises to pay, just like when the bank buys the mortgage of the farmer, takes a mortgage on his farm and lends him the money?
Sentence 159: The Government, in this case, puts the money out on good security, a straight credit basis.
Sentence 160: If you read the Congressional Record for the spring of 1934, you will find speech after speech in the Senate and the House by the Republicans and by a few Democrats, stating that all this business of Jesse Jones lending out this money was all "bunk"—that we would never get the money back, that we would be lucky if we ever got fifty per cent of the money back.
Sentence 161: Read it in the Congressional Record.
Sentence 162: And the Director of the Budget at that time came in with a long face, day after day, and said, "Mr. President, you should not accept Jesse Jones's statement that he is going to get back practically all of the money that he has been lending out."
Sentence 163: He said, "You will be everlastingly lucky if Jesse Jones gets back half the money he ever lends out."
Sentence 164: He pulled a long face so often, that I was afraid he was not in sympathy with what we were doing; and he got out.
Sentence 165: (Laughter)
Sentence 166: And of course the record shows that he was wrong and that these people in the House and Senate were wrong, because Jesse Jones has got it nearly all back.
Sentence 167: Now, there is the record and they are pulling the same old line at the present time.
Sentence 168: They are saying, "This lending money, you will never get it back."
Sentence 169: The same crowd is saying it that said it in 1934.
Sentence 170: There is nothing new in this world.
Sentence 171: It is all the same idea.
Sentence 172: Q. Would you like to say a few words in commemoration of the historical significance of tomorrow?
Sentence 173: Tomorrow will be the twelfth anniversary of the statement of former President Coolidge that he did not choose to run.
Sentence 174: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT: Are you suggesting that I should take my summer holiday in the Black Hills?
Sentence 175: (Laughter)
Q. No, sir; I merely wanted a few words in commemoration.
Sentence 176: THE PRESIDENT: I think, on my summer holiday I am going to be away, off at sea, and I am going to take three gentlemen of the Press, from the Press Associations, who will follow me on a destroyer.
Sentence 177: I hope for their sake it will be a smooth sea.
Sentence 178: Everything that they send in from the destroyer, you see, has to go through me.
Sentence 179: (Laughter)
Sentence 180: So you will get duly censored news all the time I am away.
Sentence 181: That is the only case where we have censorship of the Press.
Sentence 182: Then, when they get sick, I shall have to write their stories for them, so that will be that much worse.
Sentence 183: Q. There is a bill in the Senate, a measure that extends the life of the civil liberties measure.
Sentence 184: It is jammed up somewhere.
Sentence 185: Do you know about that?
Sentence 186: THE PRESIDENT: I have said it before and I want to make it just as strong as I possibly can, that I hope that amount will be given by the Senate to extend the work of that Civil Liberties Committee.
Sentence 187: As I understand it, they thought a year ago, a year ago last spring, just before the session ended, that if they got the final $50,000, it would complete their work.
Sentence 188: But, as the investigation went on last fall, they uncovered a great many new things that they believed were violations of certain civil liberties, and they believed that those new things ought to be investigated; but Senator La Follette felt that, having given his word that that final $50,000 would be the final $50,000, he felt that he ought not to ask for any more.
Sentence 189: He made a statement on the floor that that was the only reason he had not asked for it, but he and his colleagues actually felt and stated that they ought to have it to look into those new things that they had uncovered.
Sentence 190: So I hope very much, for the sake of civil liberties in this country, that the allocation of money will be given to them. . . .
Sentence 191: Q. Have you made up your mind what you are going to do about the Hatch Bill?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 192: Yes.
Sentence 193: Q. Would you care to tell us?
Sentence 194: THE PRESIDENT: No. (Laughter)
Sentence 195: Q. Would you care to tell us—
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 196: [interposing] I think you will get something tomorrow.
Sentence 197: Q.
Sentence 198: On civil liberties, did I understand that only the Press Associations are going with you on your northern trip?
Sentence 199: THE PRESIDENT: That is all, Russ [Young].
Sentence 200: Q. just for the record, that is all.
Sentence 201: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT: Why don't you get hired by the Press Association for the occasion?
Sentence 202: Q. No, thanks.
Sentence 203: Q. Will Senator Hatch have any desire to have that pen as a souvenir?
Sentence 204: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT: That is not even subtle.
Sentence 205: (Laughter) . . .
