Sentence 1: 1939 Excerpts From The Press Conference 88

Q. Mr. President, some people seem to have some difficulty understanding foreign policy.
Sentence 2: Have you any intention of getting down to the elementary A, B and C's in a statement, or speech or fireside talk in the near future?
Sentence 3: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 4: Well, let us do a little analyzing for the benefit of some people.
Sentence 5: In the first place, the foreign policy of the United States has been thoroughly covered in my Messages to Congress, completely and adequately covered in every way.
Sentence 6: No. 2, there is nothing new about it.
Sentence 7: No. 3, a great many people, some members of the House, some members of the Senate and quite a number of newspaper owners, are deliberately putting before the American people a deliberate misrepresentation of facts—deliberate.
Sentence 8: I had always supposed, and I still believe, that the foreign policy of the United States should not be involved in either legislative or party or newspaper politics.
Sentence 9: In other words, I do not think that the 1940 campaign should enter into the problem either of foreign policy or of American defense in the year 1939.
Sentence 10: All you have to do is to read stories and headlines to realize that pure guesses dressed up have become, in the next step, statements of fact.
Sentence 11: I have in front of me, oh, about eight or ten different newspapers.
Sentence 12: There isn't one story or one headline in all of those papers that does not give, to put it politely, an erroneous impression-not one.
Sentence 13: It is a rather interesting fact.
Sentence 14: These things have been manufactured by deliberate misrepresentation of facts, existing facts.
Sentence 15: The foreign policy has not changed and it is not going to change.
Sentence 16: If you want a comparatively simple statement of the policy, I will give it to you and Kannee can copy it out afterwards:
Number 1: We are against any entangling alliances, obviously.
Sentence 17: Number 2: We are in favor of the maintenance of world trade for everybody—all nations—including ourselves.
Sentence 18: Number 3: We are in complete sympathy with any and every effort made to reduce or limit armaments.
Sentence 19: Number 4: As a Nation—as American people—we are sympathetic with the peaceful maintenance of political, economic and social independence of all nations in the world.
Sentence 20: Now, that is very, very simple.
Sentence 21: There is absolutely nothing new in it.
Sentence 22: The American people are beginning to realize that the things they have read and heard, both from agitators of the legislative variety and the agitators of the newspaper owner variety, have been pure bunk—b-u-n-k, bunk; that these agitators are appealing to the ignorance, the prejudice and the fears of Americans and are acting in an un-American way.
Sentence 23: You will also notice that quite a number of them are receiving the loud acclaim, the applause, of those governments in the world which do not believe in the continued independence of all nations.
Sentence 24: I think that covers it pretty well.
Sentence 25: Q. Mr. President, did the Rome Embassy report to you that the Italian Government is going to change the name of Via Woodrow Wilson to Hamilton Fish?
Sentence 26: THE PRESIDENT: All I can say is that that is rather joyous.
Sentence 27: Q. Is it possible then, in connection with this, to clarify the differences in interpretations that have been coming from the conferences you have had?
Sentence 28: In other words, can you now give us exactly what happened there?
Sentence 29: THE PRESIDENT: I don't believe I could without asking them on the Hill what they think about it.
Sentence 30: Now, on the question of secrecy, that also is 100 per cent "bunk."
Sentence 31: Q. In what way?
Sentence 32: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 33: In this way: I will ask you a question: Do you think that—suppose I had information which came in through the intelligence service, that such and such things were going on in such and such a country.
Sentence 34: There are no names, no way of proving the information before a court; and yet it is information which, because it has been checked from two or three different sources, looks to be, as far as we can tell now, reasonably true.
Sentence 35: Now, suppose I held a press conference every day and gave out information of that kind to the public.
Sentence 36: In the first place, we are not definitely sure of it; it would be almost like certain stories that you read—many of them are true, many of them turn out later on not to be true.
Sentence 37: In the second place, giving out information of that kind would completely 'terminate the possibility of getting future information, because the sources of the information would be immediately blocked.
Sentence 38: Now, in that conference the other day, I told them of some things, information of that type, which we at the present time believe to be true but it is not the kind of thing to write a newspaper story about because it may not be true.
Sentence 39: It is merely our best slant as of today.
Sentence 40: It may be changed in two weeks or a month from now by other information.
Sentence 41: That is the only element of secrecy that has entered into either of the conferences, either with the Senate Committee or the House Committee.
Sentence 42: I told them both one or two pieces of matters—you would not even call it information—that have been reported to us, which we have reason to believe are true.
Sentence 43: Now, that is the only element of secrecy in either of those conferences.
Sentence 44: The rest of the conferences related solely to what I have just given you.
Sentence 45: Q. One of the principal items of the conference is that you are supposed to have told some of the conferees that the Rhine was our frontier in the battle of democracies versus fascism.
Sentence 46: THE PRESIDENT: What shall I say?
Sentence 47: Shall I be polite or call it by the right name?
Sentence 48: Q. Call it by the right name.
Sentence 49: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 50: Deliberate lie.
Sentence 51: Q.
Sentence 52: That goes, too, for the French?
Sentence 53: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 54: Yes.
Sentence 55: Q.
Sentence 56: May we quote that?
Sentence 57: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 58: Yes.
Sentence 59: Q. Was there any discussion of the manner in which the purchase of planes by France and Great Britain would be financed?
Sentence 60: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 61: Well, they asked in both conferences— the question has been asked about ten times before, "Are they going to be paid for in cash?"
Sentence 62: I said, "Yes."
Sentence 63: That is all; there is no further discussion.
Sentence 64: Q. Will the R.F.C. help them?
Sentence 65: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 66: No.
Q.
Sentence 67: You indicated a moment ago that in these fourteen or fifteen newspapers you have on your desk there was an impression given, erroneously, as I understood it, in practically every paper.
Sentence 68: Did your reading of those papers go far enough to convince you of what may be the motive of fifteen or more of our newspapers on a given day writing erroneous information—
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 69: [interposing] Oh, Fred [Essary], that is a very long subject.
Sentence 70: You know perfectly well that a story that starts as a story—"it is learned from reliable sources," that kind of a thing, or "it is believed," "sources close to the President suggested," etc., and so on.
Sentence 71: Now, when that story goes out, you are all covered by making that qualification, but the fellow who writes it up the next day, either in the editorials or in the subsequent news stories, leaves out your qualifying phrases.
Sentence 72: We have all had that happen.
Sentence 73: There isn't a person here who hasn't had that happen.
Sentence 74: That is the mechanics of journalism, and that is what happened in this case.
Sentence 75: I read, for instance, a compendium or consensus of editorial opinion I have here, and you will find that every one of those editorials put down as facts what you boys had said, "it was learned from so
Sentence 76: and so
Sentence 77: but it was contradicted by somebody else," or "it is understood that at the conference the President did this, that or the other thing."
Sentence 78: Now, in these editorials there isn't one that does not take those qualified statements as facts, and that is one of the troubles with our newspapers today.
Sentence 79: The public understands pretty well when it is said that such and such a thing is learned on good authority, or it has been suggested by White House sources, or things like that.
Sentence 80: They understand that that is not news, it is only a rumor of news.
Sentence 81: It does not make anybody sore; it is part of our system of a free press; and it is primarily all right
Sentence 82: and the public is getting more and more discriminatory, which is fine.
Sentence 83: Q.
Sentence 84: The thing that impresses me most about your observation is that the things that we are writing or our editors are writing, and our publishers are publishing, are being applauded abroad.
Sentence 85: There seems to be something sinister about the way what we are writing is getting foreign applause.
Sentence 86: THE PRESIDENT: That follows out the statement that the American frontier is the Rhine.
Sentence 87: Some "boob. . .
Sentence 88: .
Sentence 89: got that off"; I don't think it was a member of the Press.
Sentence 90: That was applauded in France.
Sentence 91: There were editorials about it; newspaper stories about this great thing that the President had said, and it was attacked in Germany, and it was attacked in Italy.
Sentence 92: It was applauded in London.
Sentence 93: In other words, the attack and the applause are again based on a misstatement of fact.
Sentence 94: Now, what can I do about it?
Sentence 95: Q. Have somebody in the Senate give the correct version.
Sentence 96: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 97: No, you have the correct version.
Sentence 98: I just gave it to you.
Sentence 99: Q.
Sentence 100: Do you doubt that somebody said that?
Sentence 101: THE PRESIDENT: I doubt it very much.
Sentence 102: I would like to have that traced down and find out who it was, and if you can get him, Earl [Godwin], and bring him down here and let me ask him "Did you say that?"
Sentence 103: Q. Do you doubt somebody said that to a newspaper man?
Sentence 104: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 105: Yes, I believe somebody did say it, but I would like to have you bring that fellow down here.
Sentence 106: That would be very good.
Sentence 107: Q. Mr. President, do you think that that catch phrase sums up the situation?
Sentence 108: THE PRESIDENT: What phrase?
Sentence 109: Q. "The American frontier is on the Rhine.
Sentence 110: "
THE PRESIDENT: Of course not.
Sentence 111: Q.
Sentence 112: There is another manner in which that can get into print and that is by somebody in the conference making that remark to you.
Sentence 113: Could that happen, or did it happen?
Sentence 114: THE PRESIDENT: No, the remark was not even made to me.
Sentence 115: Q. Are you going to withdraw the name of the Virginia judge?
Sentence 116: [Meaning Judge Roberts whose confirmation was being held up by the Senate.
Sentence 117: See Item 28, this volume]
THE PRESIDENT: No.
Sentence 118: On the Virginia judge, the Senate, of course, has not taken action, but if the Senate should refuse confirmation it is my plan to write a letter to Judge Roberts and that letter, I think, will be quite interesting.
Sentence 119: Q. Would that same course be followed in case Mr. Amlie's appointment or nomination were not confirmed.
Sentence 120: THE PRESIDENT: I do not know at all; I haven't thought of it.
Sentence 121: Q.
Sentence 122: You are not withdrawing the Amlie nomination?
Sentence 123: THE PRESIDENT: No.
