Sentence 1: 1940 Campaign Address Cleveland Ohio

Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen:
In making this, my final national address of the campaign, I express once more my deep regret that I could not carry out my wish to go to other States in the great Middle West, in the South and across the Mississippi River.
Sentence 2: It has been solely in the interest of peace and the maintenance of peace that your great Secretary of State and I have felt that we should both remain within easy distance of the National Capital in these trying days.
Sentence 3: Tonight in Cleveland, I am happy, through this great audience of my old friends, to give this message to America.
Sentence 4: For the past seven years I have had the high honor and the grave responsibility of leadership of the American people.
Sentence 5: In those seven years, the American people have marched forward, out of a wilderness of depression and despair.
Sentence 6: They have marched forward right up to the very threshold of the future—a future which holds the fulfillment of our hopes for real freedom, real prosperity, real peace.
Sentence 7: I want that march to continue for four more years.
Sentence 8: And for that purpose, I am asking your vote of confidence.
Sentence 9: There are certain forces within our own national community, composed of men who call themselves American but who would destroy America.
Sentence 10: They are the forces of dictatorship in our land-on one hand, the Communists, and on the other, the Girdlers.
Sentence 11: It is their constant purpose in this as in other lands to weaken democracy, to destroy the free man's faith in his own cause.
Sentence 12: In this election all the representatives of those forces, without exception, are voting against the New Deal.
Sentence 13: You and I are proud of that opposition.
Sentence 14: It is positive proof that what we have built and strengthened in the past seven years is democracy!
Sentence 15: This generation of Americans is living in a tremendous moment of history.
Sentence 16: The surge of events abroad has made some few doubters among us ask: Is this the end of a story that has been told?
Sentence 17: Is the book of democracy now to be closed and placed away upon the dusty shelves of time?
Sentence 18: My answer is this: All we have known of the glories of democracy-its freedom, its efficiency as a mode of living, its ability to meet the aspirations of the common man— all these are merely an introduction to the greater story of a more glorious future.
Sentence 19: We Americans of today—all of us—we are characters in this living book of democracy.
Sentence 20: But we are also its author.
Sentence 21: It falls upon us now to say whether the chapters that are to come will tell a story of retreat or a story of continued advance.
Sentence 22: I believe that the American people will say: "Forward!"
Sentence 23: We look at the old world of Europe today.
Sentence 24: It is an ugly world, poisoned by hatred and greed and fear.
Sentence 25: We can see what has been the inevitable consequence of that poison—war.
Sentence 26: We look at the country in which we live.
Sentence 27: It is a great country, built by.
Sentence 28: generations of peaceable, friendly men and women who had in their hearts faith that the good life can be attained by those who will work for it.
Sentence 29: We know that we are determined to defend our country—and with our neighbors to defend this Hemisphere.
Sentence 30: We are strong in our defense.
Sentence 31: Every hour and every day we grow stronger.
Sentence 32: Our foreign policy is shaped to express the determination of our Government and the will of our people in our dealings with other nations.
Sentence 33: Those dealings, in the past few years, have been more difficult, more complex than ever before.
Sentence 34: There is nothing secret about our foreign policy.
Sentence 35: It is not a secret from the American people-and it is not a secret from any Government anywhere in the world.
Sentence 36: I have stated it many times before, not only in words but in action.
Sentence 37: Let me restate it like this:
The first purpose of our foreign policy is to keep our country out of war.
Sentence 38: At the same time, we seek to keep foreign conceptions of Government out of the United States.
Sentence 39: That is why we make ourselves strong; that is why we muster all the reserves of our national strength.
Sentence 40: The second purpose of this policy is to keep war as far away as possible from the shores of the entire Western Hemisphere.
Sentence 41: Our policy is to promote such friendly relations with the Latin-American Republics and with Canada, that the great powers of Europe and Asia will know that they cannot divide the peoples of this hemisphere one from another.
Sentence 42: And if you go from the North Pole to the South Pole, you will know that it is a policy of practical success.
Sentence 43: Finally, our policy is to give all possible material aid to the nations which still resist aggression, across the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
Sentence 44: And let me make it perfectly clear that we intend to commit none of the fatal errors of appeasement.
Sentence 45: We in this Nation of many States have found the way by which men of many racial origins may live together in peace.
Sentence 46: If the human race as a whole is to survive, the world must find the way by which men and nations can live together in peace.
Sentence 47: We cannot accept the doctrine that war must be forever a part of man's destiny.
Sentence 48: We do know what would be the foreign policy of those who are doubters about our democracy;
We do not know what would be the foreign policy of those who are obviously trying to sit on both sides of the fence at the same time.
Sentence 49: Ours is the foreign policy of an Administration which has undying faith in the strength of our democracy today, full confidence in the vitality of our democracy in the future, and a consistent record in the cause of peace.
Sentence 50: Our strength is measured not only in terms of the might of our armaments.
Sentence 51: It is measured not only in terms of the horsepower of our machines.
Sentence 52: The true measure of our strength lies deeply imbedded in the social and economic justice of the system in which we live.
Sentence 53: For you can build ships and tanks and planes and guns galore; but they will not be enough.
Sentence 54: You must place behind them an invincible faith in the institutions which they have been built to defend.
Sentence 55: The dictators have devised a new system—or, rather, a modern, streamlined version of a very ancient system.
Sentence 56: But Americans will have none of that.
Sentence 57: They will never submit to domination or influence by Naziism or Communism.
Sentence 58: They will hesitate to support those of whom they are not absolutely sure.
Sentence 59: For Americans are determined to retain for themselves the right of free speech, free religion, free assembly and the right which lies at the basis of all of them—the right to choose the officers of their own Government in free elections.
Sentence 60: We intend to keep our freedom—to defend it from attacks from without and against corruption from within.
Sentence 61: We shall defend it against the forces of dictatorship, whatever disguises and false faces they may wear.
Sentence 62: But we have learned that freedom in itself is not enough.
Sentence 63: Freedom of speech is of no use to a man who has nothing to say.
Sentence 64: Freedom of worship is of no use to a man who has lost his God.
Sentence 65: Democracy, to be dynamic, must provide for its citizens opportunity as well as freedom.
Sentence 66: We of this generation have seen a rebirth of dynamic democracy in America in these past few years.
Sentence 67: The American people have faced with courage the most severe problems of all of our modern history.
Sentence 68: The start toward a solution of these problems had to be made seven years ago by providing the bare necessities of life—food and shelter and clothing.
Sentence 69: The American people insisted that those obligations were a concern of Government; they denied that the only solution was the poorhouse.
Sentence 70: Your Government assumed its proper function as the working representative of the average men and women of America.
Sentence 71: And the reforms in our social structure that we have achieved these permanent reforms are your achievement.
Sentence 72: The New Deal has been the creation of you, the American people.
Sentence 73: You provided work for free men and women in America who could find no work.
Sentence 74: Idle men were given the opportunity on roads to be built, homes to be erected, rivers to be harnessed, power to be made for farm and home and industry.
Sentence 75: You used the powers of Government to stop the depletion of the top soil of America, to stop decline in farm prices, to stop foreclosures of homes and farms.
Sentence 76: You wrote into the law the right of working men and women to bargain collectively, and you set up the machinery to enforce that right.
Sentence 77: You turned to the problems of youth and age.
Sentence 78: You took your children out of the factory and shop and outlawed the right of anyone to exploit the labor of those children; and you gave to those children the chance to prepare in body and spirit the molding of an even fuller and brighter day for themselves.
Sentence 79: For the youth of the land you provided chances for jobs and for education.
Sentence 80: And for old age itself you provided security and rest.
Sentence 81: You made safe the banks which held your savings.
Sentence 82: You stopped, once and for all, gambling with other people's money-money changing in the temple.
Sentence 83: You advanced to other objectives.
Sentence 84: You gained them, you consolidated them and advanced again.
Sentence 85: The task which this generation had to do has been begun.
Sentence 86: The forward march of democracy is under way.
Sentence 87: Its advance must not and will not stop.
Sentence 88: During those years while our democracy moved forward, your Government has worked with you and for you.
Sentence 89: Your Government has at times been checked.
Sentence 90: But always, with the aid and the counsel of all the people, we have resumed our march.
Sentence 91: Now we are asked to stop in our tracks.
Sentence 92: We are asked to turn about, to march back into the wilderness from which we came.
Sentence 93: Of course we will not turn backward.
Sentence 94: We will not turn back because we are the inheritors of a tradition of pioneering, exploring, experimenting and adventuring.
Sentence 95: We will not be scared into retreating by threats from the doubters of democracy.
Sentence 96: Neither will we be bribed by extravagant promises of fabulous wealth.
Sentence 97: Those who offer such promises try to delude us with a mirage on the far horizon—a mirage of an island of dreams, with palaces and palms and plums.
Sentence 98: And it is a curious fact of nature that a mirage is always upside down, above the horizon.
Sentence 99: But then, the mirage—upside down or right-side up—isn't there at all.
Sentence 100: Now you see it—and now you don't.
Sentence 101: Of course we shall continue to strengthen all these dynamic reforms in our social and economic life; to keep the processes of democracy side by side with the necessities and possibilities of modern industrial production.
Sentence 102: Of course we shall continue to make available the good things of life created by the genius of science and technology- to use them, however, not for the enjoyment of the few but for the welfare of all.
Sentence 103: For there lies the road to democracy that is strong.
Sentence 104: Of course we intend to preserve and build up the land of this country—its soil, its forests and its rivers—all the resources with which God has endowed the people of the United States.
Sentence 105: Of course we intend to continue to build up the bodies and the minds of the men, women and children of the Nation—through democratic education and a democratic program for health.
Sentence 106: For there lies the road to democracy that is strong.
Sentence 107: Of course we intend to continue our efforts to protect our system of private enterprise and private property, but to protect it from monopoly of financial control on the one hand and from Communistic wrecking on the other.
Sentence 108: Of course we shall continue our efforts to prevent economic dictatorship as well as political dictatorship.
Sentence 109: Of course we intend to continue to build up the morale of this country, not as blind obedience to some leader, but as the expression of confidence in the deeply ethical principles upon which this Nation and its democracy were founded.
Sentence 110: For there lies the road to democracy that is strong.
Sentence 111: The progress of our country, as well as the defense of our country, requires national unity.
Sentence 112: We need the cooperation of every single American—our workers, the great organizers and technicians in our factories, our farmers, our professional men and women, our workers in industry, our mothers, our fathers, our youth—all the men and women who love America just a little bit more than they love themselves.
Sentence 113: And if we can have the assistance of all these, we can promise that such a program can make this country prosperous and free and strong—to be a light of the world and a comfort to all people.
Sentence 114: And all the forces of evil shall not prevail against it.
Sentence 115: For so it is written in the Book, and so it is written in the moral law, and so it is written in the promise of a great era of world peace.
Sentence 116: This Nation which is arming itself for defense has also the intelligence to save its human resources by giving them that confidence which comes from useful work.
Sentence 117: This Nation which is creating a great navy has also found the strength to build houses and begin to clear the slums of its cities and its countryside.
Sentence 118: This Nation which has become the industrial leader of the world has the humanity to know that the people of a free land need not suffer the disease of poverty and the dread of not being wanted.
Sentence 119: It is the destiny of this American generation to point the road to the future for all the world to see.
Sentence 120: It is our prayer that all lovers of freedom may join us—the anguished common people of this earth for whom we seek to light the path.
Sentence 121: I see an America where factory workers are not discarded after they reach their prime, where there is no endless chain of poverty from generation to generation, where impoverished farmers and farm hands do not become homeless wanderers, where monopoly does not make youth a beggar for a job.
Sentence 122: I see an America whose rivers and valleys and lakes—hills and streams and plains—the mountains over our land and nature's wealth deep under the earth—are protected as the rightful heritage of all the people.
Sentence 123: I see an America where small business really has a chance to flourish and grow.
Sentence 124: I see an America of great cultural and educational opportunity for all its people.
Sentence 125: I see an America where the income from the land shall be implemented and protected by a Government determined to guarantee to those who hoe it a fair share in the national income.
Sentence 126: An America where the wheels of trade and private industry continue to turn to make the goods for America.
Sentence 127: Where no businessman can be stifled by the harsh hand of monopoly, and where the legitimate profits of legitimate business are the fair reward of every businessman—big and little—in all the Nation.
Sentence 128: I see an America with peace in the ranks of labor.
Sentence 129: An America where the workers are really free and—through their great unions undominated by any outside force, or by any dictator within—can take their proper place at the council table with the owners and managers of business.
Sentence 130: Where the dignity and security of the working man and woman are guaranteed by their own strength and fortified by the safeguards of law.
Sentence 131: An America where those who have reached the evening of life shall live out their years in peace and security.
Sentence 132: Where pensions and insurance for these aged shall be given as a matter of right to those who through a long life of labor have served their families and their nation as well.
Sentence 133: I see an America devoted to our freedom—unified by tolerance and by religious faith—a people consecrated to peace, a people confident in strength because their body and their spirit are secure and unafraid.
Sentence 134: During these years while our democracy advanced on many fields of battle, I have had the great privilege of being your President.
Sentence 135: No personal ambition of any man could desire more than that.
Sentence 136: It is a hard task.
Sentence 137: It is a task from which there is no escape day or night.
Sentence 138: And through it all there have been two thoughts uppermost in my mind—to preserve peace in our land; and to make the forces of democracy work for the benefit of the common people of America.
Sentence 139: Seven years ago I started with loyal helpers and with the trust and faith and support of millions of ordinary Americans.
Sentence 140: The way was difficult— the path was dark, but we have moved steadily forward to the open fields and the glowing light that shines ahead.
Sentence 141: The way of our lives seems clearer now, if we but follow the charts and the guides of our democratic faith.
Sentence 142: There is a great storm raging now, a storm that makes things harder for the world.
Sentence 143: And that storm, which did not start in this land of ours, is the true reason that I would like to stick by these people of ours until we reach the clear, sure footing ahead.
Sentence 144: We will make it—we will make it before the next term is over.
Sentence 145: We will make it; and the world, we hope, will make it, too.
Sentence 146: When that term is over there will be another President, and many more Presidents in the years to come, and I think that, in the years to come, that word "President" will be a word to cheer the hearts of common men and women everywhere.
Sentence 147: Our future belongs to us Americans.
Sentence 148: It is for us to design it; for us to build it.
Sentence 149: In that building of it we shall prove that our faith is strong enough to survive the most fearsome storms that have ever swept over the earth.
Sentence 150: In the days and months and years to come, we shall be making history—hewing out a new shape for the future.
Sentence 151: And we shall make very sure that that future of ours bears the likeness of liberty.
Sentence 152: Always the heart and the soul of our country will be the heart and the soul of the common man—the men and the women who never have ceased to believe in democracy, who never have ceased to love their families, their homes and their country.
Sentence 153: The spirit of the common man is the spirit of peace and good will.
Sentence 154: It is the spirit of God.
Sentence 155: And in His faith is the strength of all America.
