Sentence 1: 1940 Press Conference 3

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: When I came back yesterday I began to note intimations that this inaugural party was getting out of hand—all these chairmen, et cetera, trying to make a real party out of it, and I was trying not to.
Sentence 3: In other words, simplicity, I still think, should be the keynote; and I am trying to catch up and find out what people have been doing while I was away.
Sentence 4: Outside of that I have been trying to catch up on quite a number of other things.
Sentence 5: I don't think there is any particular news, except possibly one thing that I think is worth my talking about.
Sentence 6: In the present world situation of course there is absolutely no doubt in the mind of a very overwhelming number of Americans that the best immediate defense of the United States is the success of Great Britain in defending itself; and that, therefore, quite aside from our historic and current interest in the survival of democracy, in the world as a whole, it is equally important from a selfish point of view of American defense, that we should do everything to help the British Empire to defend itself.
Sentence 7: I have read a great deal of nonsense in the last few days by people who can only think in what we may call traditional terms about finances.
Sentence 8: Steve
Sentence 9: [Mr. Early] was asking me about it this morning, and I thought it was better that I should talk to you than for Steve to talk to you; but I gave him one line which he would have used this morning if anybody had asked him, and that was this:
Sentence 10: In my memory, and your memory, and in all history, no major war has ever been won or lost through lack of money.
Sentence 11: I remember 1914 very well, and I will give you an illustration:
Sentence 12: In 1914 I was up at Eastport, Maine, with the family the end of July, and I got a telegram from the .Navy Department that it looked as if war would break out in Europe the next day.
Sentence 13: Actually it did break out in a few hours, when Germany invaded Belgium.
Sentence 14: So I went across from the island and took a train down to Ellsworth, where I got on the Bar Harbor Express.
Sentence 15: I went into the smoking room.
Sentence 16: The smoking room of the Express was filled with gentlemen from banking and brokerage offices in New York, most of whom were old friends of mine; and they began giving me their opinion about the impending world war in Europe.
Sentence 17: These eminent bankers and brokers assured me, and made it good with bets, that there wasn't enough money in all the world to carry on a European war for more than three months-bets at even money; that the bankers would stop the war within six months—odds of 2 to 1; that it was humanly impossible-physically impossible- for a European war to last for six months—odds of 4 to 1; and so forth and so on.
Sentence 18: Well, actually, I suppose I must have won those- they were small, five-dollar bets— I must have made a hundred dollars.
Sentence 19: I wish I had bet a lot more.
Sentence 20: There was the best economic opinion in the world that the continuance of war was absolutely dependent on money in the bank.
Sentence 21: Well, you know what happened.
Sentence 22: Now we have been getting stories, speeches, et cetera, in regard to this particular war that is going on, which go back a little bit to that attitude.
Sentence 23: It isn't merely a question of doing things the traditional way; there are lots of other ways of doing them.
Sentence 24: I am just talking background, informally; I haven't prepared any of this—I go back to the idea that the one thing necessary for American national defense is additional productive facilities; and the more we increase those facilities—factories, shipbuilding ways, munition plants, et cetera, and so on—the stronger American national defense is.
Sentence 25: Orders from Great Britain are therefore a tremendous asset to American national defense; because they automatically create additional facilities.
Sentence 26: I am talking selfishly, from the American point of view—nothing else.
Sentence 27: Therefore, from the selfish point of view, that production must be encouraged by us.
Sentence 28: There are several ways of encouraging it—not just one, as the narrow-minded fellow I have been talking about might assume, and has assumed.
Sentence 29: He has assumed that the only way was to repeal certain existing statutes, like the Neutrality Act and the old Johnson Act and a few other things like that; and then to lend the money to Great Britain to be spent over here—either lend it through private banking circles, as was done in the earlier days of the previous war, or make it a loan from this Government to the British Government.
Sentence 30: Well, that is one type of mind that can think only of that method somewhat banal.
Sentence 31: There is another one which is also somewhat banal—we may come to it, I don't know—and that is a gift; in other words, for us to pay for all these munitions, ships, plants, guns, et cetera, and make a gift of them to Great Britain.
Sentence 32: I am not at all sure that that is a necessity, and I am not at all sure that Great Britain would care to have a gift from the taxpayers of the United States.
Sentence 33: I doubt it very much.
Sentence 34: Well, there are other possible ways, and those ways are being explored.
Sentence 35: All I can do is to speak in very general terms, because we are in the middle of it.
Sentence 36: I have been at it now three or four weeks, exploring other methods of continuing the building up of our productive facilities and continuing automatically the flow of munitions to Great Britain.
Sentence 37: I will just put it this way, not as an exclusive alternative method, but as one of several other possible methods that might be devised toward that end.
Sentence 38: It is possible—I will put it that way—for the United States to take over British orders, and, because they are essentially the same kind of munitions that we use ourselves, turn them into American orders.
Sentence 39: We have enough money to do it.
Sentence 40: And thereupon, as to such portion of them as the military events of the future determine to be right and proper for us to allow to go to the other side, either lease or sell the materials, subject to mortgage, to the people on the other side.
Sentence 41: That would be on the general theory that it may still prove true that the best defense of Great Britain is the best defense of the United States, and therefore that these materials would be more useful to the defense of the United States if they were used in Great Britain, than if they were kept in storage here.
Sentence 42: Now, what I am trying to do is to eliminate the dollar sign.
Sentence 43: That is something brand new in the thoughts of practically everybody in this room, I think—get rid of the silly, foolish old dollar sign.
Sentence 44: Well, let me give you an illustration: Suppose my neighbor's home catches fire, and I have a length of garden hose four or five hundred feet away.
Sentence 45: If he can take my garden hose and connect it up with his hydrant, I may help him to put out his fire.
Sentence 46: Now, what do I do?
Sentence 47: I don't say to him before that operation, "Neighbor, my garden hose cost me $15; you have to pay me $15 for it."
Sentence 48: What is the transaction that goes on?
Sentence 49: I don't want $15—I want my garden hose back after the fire is over.
Sentence 50: All right.
Sentence 51: If it goes through the fire all right, intact, without any damage to it, he gives it back to me and thanks me very much for the use of it.
Sentence 52: But suppose it gets smashed up—holes in it—during the fire; we don't have to have too much formality about it, but I say to him, "I was glad to lend you that hose; I see I can't use it any more, it's all smashed up."
Sentence 53: He says, "How many feet of it were there?"
Sentence 54: I tell him, "There were 150 feet of it."
Sentence 55: He says, "All right, I will replace it."
Sentence 56: Now, if I get a nice garden hose back, I am in pretty good shape.
Sentence 57: In other words, if you lend certain munitions and get the munitions back at the end of the war, if they are intact haven't been hurt—you are all right; if they have been damaged or have deteriorated or have been lost completely, it seems to me you come out pretty well if you have them replaced by the fellow to whom you have lent them.
Sentence 58: I can't go into details; and there is no use asking legal questions about how you would do it, because that is the thing that is now under study; but the thought is that we would take over not all, but a very large number of, future British orders; and when they came off the line, whether they were planes or guns or something else, we would enter into some kind of arrangement for their use by the British on the ground that it was the best thing for American defense, with the understanding that when the show was over, we would get repaid sometime in kind, thereby leaving out the dollar mark in the form of a dollar debt and substituting for it a gentleman's obligation to repay in kind.
Sentence 59: I think you all get it.
Sentence 60: Q. Mr. President, that suggests a question, all right; Would the title still be in our name?
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT: You have gone and asked a question I have told you not to ask, because it would take lawyers much better than you or I to answer it.
Sentence 62: Where the legal title is would depend largely on what the lawyers say.
Sentence 63: Now, for example, if you get mixed up in the legal end of this, you get in all kinds of tangles.
Sentence 64: Let me ask you this simple question: You own, let us say, a house, a piece of property, a farm, and it is not encumbered in any way—there is no mortgage on it rebut you have had some troubles, and you want to borrow four or five thousand dollars on it.
Sentence 65: You go to the bank and you say, "I want to borrow four or five thousand dollars on my house or my farm."
Sentence 66: They say, "Sure; give me a mortgage.
Sentence 67: "
You give them a mortgage, if you think you will be able to pay it off in three or four years.
Sentence 68: In your mind you still think you own your own house; you still think it is your house or your farm; but from the strictly legalistic point of view, the bank is the owner.
Sentence 69: You deed your house over to the bank; you pledge it, like going to the pawnbroker.
Sentence 70: Let's take the other side of it: The title to your gold watch is vested in the pawnbroker.
Sentence 71: You can redeem it; you can pay off your mortgage and get title to your house.
Sentence 72: On this particular thing—let's say it's a ship—I haven't the faintest idea at this moment in whom the legal title of that particular ship would be.
Sentence 73: I don't think that makes any difference in the transaction; the point of the transaction is that if that ship were returned to us in first-class condition, after payment of what might be called a reasonable amount for the ship during that time—the other people might have had a legal title or the title might have remained in us; I don't know, and I don't care.
Sentence 74: Q. Let us leave out the legal phase of it entirely; the question I have is whether you think this takes us any more into the war than we are?
Sentence 75: THE PRESIDENT: No, not a bit.
Sentence 76: Q.
Sentence 77: Even though goods that we own are being used?
THE PRESIDENT: I don't think you go into a war for legalistic reasons; in other words, we are doing all we can at the present time.
Sentence 78: Q. Mr. President, did you mean naval craft?
Sentence 79: THE PRESIDENT: No, no!
Sentence 80: I am talking about merchant ships.
Sentence 81: Q.
Sentence 82: It is my understanding that this is all for purposes of background, but at one point here I was wondering whether you would attribute this to the necessity for facilities and for encouragement of production?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 83: I think you can attribute this—what we have been talking about— to me.
Sentence 84: Q. Mr. President, would we take our own goods abroad?
Sentence 85: THE PRESIDENT: What do you mean—take our own goods?
Q.
Sentence 86: As long as this is being made to our account and we are lending it to Great Britain, would we deliver the goods in Great Britain that are going to be used in that way?
Sentence 87: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 88: Oh, I suppose it would depend on what flag was flying at the stern of the ship.
Sentence 89: You can work it out any way you want.
Sentence 90: It might be even a Bolivian flag.
Sentence 91: That question is a detail.
Sentence 92: Q. Would it be an American flag?
Sentence 93: THE PRESIDENT: Not necessarily.
Sentence 94: That would bring up another subject; that would bring up a subject which might be a dangerous one, quite frankly, of American sailors and American passengers, et cetera, taking the American flag into a war zone.
Sentence 95: You need not worry about that one bit, because you don't have to send an American flag and an American crew on an American vessel.
Sentence 96: Q.
Sentence 97: I was backing into the question that this whole theory of yours doesn't involve amendment of the Neutrality Act.
Sentence 98: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 99: Right!
Sentence 100: Q.
Sentence 101: You referred to future orders in this connection; as I understand it, the orders the British have given would go ahead on the basis of existing contracts and would be paid for?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 102: Yes, I think so.
Sentence 103: They have plenty of exchange, you know.
Sentence 104: There doesn't seem to be very much of a problem about payment for existing orders, but there might be a problem about paying for additions to those orders or for replacement of those orders now.
Sentence 105: Q. Is this a safe conclusion on what you have said, that what the British are interested in is to have us lend them the supplies?
Sentence 106: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 107: That's the point.
Sentence 108: I am trying to eliminate the dollar mark.
Sentence 109: Q. Does this require Congressional approval?
Sentence 110: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 111: Oh, yes, this would require various types of legislation, in addition to appropriation.
Sentence 112: Let me give you an example: Let's take anything—a shell factory; and the present shell factories are all filled up with orders a year-two years—ahead; but the British need more shells now, and the shell manufacturers say, "that is all very well, but we have got to get a new factory."
Sentence 113: And the United States Government has ordered several new factories and put up the money through the R.F.C. or some other way for the capital.
Sentence 114: Well, if the British wanted a new factory for additional shells, or went above present orders, if we take that order over we would do the financing of the factory just the way we have done it for ourselves, thereby increasing the productive capacity for turning out shells.
Sentence 115: Q. Mr. President, before you loan your hose to your neighbor you have to have the hose.
Sentence 116: I was wondering, have you any plans to build up supplies?
Sentence 117: There has been a good deal of discussion about lack of authority to tell a manufacturer he should run two or three shifts a day.
Sentence 118: There is no one now that has that authority.
Sentence 119: THE PRESIDENT: Isn't there?
Sentence 120: Q.
Sentence 121: I don't believe so.
Sentence 122: THE PRESIDENT: I think so, yes.
Sentence 123: After all, you have to follow certain laws of the land.
Sentence 124: Of course the law is, and always was that contracts by the Navy, for instance (I used to place a great many of them in the World War) —should be signed by the Secretary of the Navy or the Assistant Secretary of the Navy.
Sentence 125: Never, in the history of the United States, has that power been taken away from the two main contracting departments.
Sentence 126: That is a pretty important thing to remember.
Sentence 127: A lot of people in the last week or two have forgotten that fact.
Sentence 128: There never has been one individual in this country, outside of the Army or Navy, who could do anything more than recommend very strongly that they do thus and so, and supervise it—supervise keeping the program up to date.
Sentence 129: If the program is not kept up to date, there are lots of things that have been done in the past, and would be done in the future.
Sentence 130: That is what was done in the World War.
Sentence 131: The number of perfectly crazy assertions that have been made in the last couple of weeks by some people who didn't grow up until after the World War is perfectly extraordinary.
Sentence 132: They have assigned all kinds of authorities and powers to people in the World War that never existed, except in the figment of their imagination.
Sentence 133: I went through it; I happen to know.
Sentence 134: Q. Mr. President, on your statement that we never would get into war for legalistic reasons—would you amplify that a little?
Sentence 135: THE PRESIDENT: Only this, that I would not try, from what I have said, to make it appear—who was it who asked that question a while ago?
MR. EARLY: Jim Wright.
Sentence 136: THE PRESIDENT: Jim Wright asked whether any of these steps would be a greater danger to the United States of getting into war than the existing situation, and the answer is: "No, of course not."
Sentence 137: In other words, we are furnishing everything we possibly can at the present moment.
Sentence 138: This will make easier a continuation of that program.
Sentence 139: That's all there is to it.
Sentence 140: Q. Mr. President, it is interesting about taking over the future orders for the British, but Mr. Knudsen says that the first half of that is crucial.
Sentence 141: Can you do anything more than you are doing?
Sentence 142: THE PRESIDENT: Except efficient people; that's what he is trying to do—push them.
Sentence 143: Q. Mr. President, has the division of orders been changed?
Sentence 144: It was 50-50 the last time.
Sentence 145: THE PRESIDENT: That was a rule of thumb.
Sentence 146: In some places it is 40-60, and in others 60-40.
Sentence 147: Q. Mr. President, do any production delays at the present time indicate any need for authority to take over plants?
THE PRESIDENT: That is a thing I asked Steve
Sentence 148: [Mr. Early] to lookup this morning.
Sentence 149: MR. EARLY:
Sentence 150: No one is reporting today, sir.
Sentence 151: THE PRESIDENT: That is a thing I asked Steve to report on.
Sentence 152: No one reported today.
Sentence 153: But I think it is fair to say there are two or three companies under investigation.
Sentence 154: Q. Mr. President, do you expect to place this general idea before this session of Congress?
Sentence 155: THE PRESIDENT: Either that or something similar.
Sentence 156: Q.
Sentence 157: Within a few days?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 158: No, probably not until the 3rd, because the thing has not only to be worked out here, but in London too.
Sentence 159: Q. Mr. President, is there any plan under consideration for building up our Defense Program because of this?
Sentence 160: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 161: Well, that's a pretty general question; on what, for example?
Sentence 162: Q. I wondered if you had any specific program for building up any phase of defense.
Sentence 163: THE PRESIDENT: You can't answer a general question like that.
Sentence 164: If you ask about an article that is coming along in good shape, the answer is No.
Sentence 165: It depends on what you are talking about.
Sentence 166: Before I left, I think we talked about the Navy destroyer program which, in my judgment, was completely insufficient because a lot of the planned destroyers could not be laid down except in turn.
Sentence 167: In other words, after No. 1 Destroyer had been built and launched from the ways, then they would start No. 31 of the destroyers on the same ways, build that and launch it, and after that was launched they would put No. 61 on the same ways, so that No. 61 would not be launched for perhaps four years from now.
Sentence 168: Well, now, the answer to that program, which was laid down by the Navy Department, was that in my judgment it was too darned slow.
Sentence 169: And how can you speed it up?
Sentence 170: By building more ways.
Sentence 171: So that was an illustration of how the program as laid down proved insufficient, and we are now studying how we can build more destroyer ways.
Sentence 172: Q. Mr. President, Mr. Knudsen said the whole Defense Program was lagging pretty severely; do you see anything in this picture that would require you to extend the present limited emergency?
Sentence 173: THE PRESIDENT: No; that again is largely a legalistic problem.
Sentence 174: It is a great question whether it would speed it up or not—a great technical question.
Sentence 175: Q. Mr. President, when the Government refuses to take in a union man on a defense project, don't you think it is because the unions ask exorbitant fees?
Sentence 176: THE PRESIDENT: You would have to give me the name of the man and information about the case.
Sentence 177: Q. How about eliminating the Friday to Monday blackout?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 178: It depends entirely on the particular type of industrial plant and the conditions in the locality, and the type of workmen that are used.
Sentence 179: There is no generalization that is possible; and the one thing we have to avoid, all of us, is generalization.
Sentence 180: Now for example- you take down here in the Washington Navy Yard, there are certain very, very skilled trades; and there is a shortage of labor in those trades.
Sentence 181: Because there is a shortage, because there is no relief, no additional labor in that trade, we probably have to employ the people in that particular trade, more than 40 hours; and for the extra hours they will get time and a half for overtime.
Sentence 182: You take the other extreme— common labor; there's plenty of it.
Sentence 183: For common labor it is not necessary in that particular yard to work men overtime; and yet you can run the yard six days a week, or even seven days a week.
Sentence 184: It takes a lot more planning on the part of management to work it out, but you can employ one group of common laborers the first five days in the week, 40 hours—that is, 8 hours a day; and then another group you can employ on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday and give them Sunday and Monday off; and another group you can employ Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday and give them Monday and Tuesday off; and in that way you can keep a plant going seven days a week if you want to.
Sentence 185: It takes a little more-what shall I say?—figuring out on a sheet of paper, a little more trouble.
Sentence 186: In that way some people will get their holiday in the middle of the week for a while, and others will get it at the end of the week; but it can be done, and it is being done-that is the point of it—in a great many plants in the United States.
Sentence 187: It is being done; and that can be extended to a great many other plants.
Sentence 188: It is a nuisance from the point of view of plant management; we all know that.
Sentence 189: There is still another point to consider—there are plants which obviously could not run seven days a week; the plant that has to be laid up for repairs one day out of seven; or a part of a particular plant that has to be laid up for repairs and closed down one day out of seven.
Sentence 190: You see you can't apply a general rule.
Sentence 191: It's just plain immature to try to do it.
Sentence 192: The people that understand manufacturing will be the first to say you can't apply a general rule to this question.
Sentence 193: Q. Mr. President, one argument that is advanced is where it is necessary for a man to work 55 hours a week, a trained man, and he can't be replaced; and since the public is begging for this armament, that is putting undue stress on the public's shoulders—time and a half.
Sentence 194: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 195: In the case of that particular man that is irreplaceable working 55 hours a week, we are trying, as you know, to train other people to fit into those positions.
Sentence 196: It takes time to do it, but gradually we are getting a large number of people trained to do these specialized jobs.
Sentence 197: Q. Mr. President, on this defense setup, do we understand you to mean that you are not interested in appointing a chairman of the national defense?
Sentence 198: THE PRESIDENT: I would not draw any inferences on a detail.
Sentence 199: That is a pure detail.
Sentence 200: Q. One more question: I believe Mr. Knudsen referred to the blackout of machine time rather than human time.
Sentence 201: I believe he was referring quite specifically to the fact that the machines were shut down between Friday and Monday.
Sentence 202: THE PRESIDENT: You have to tell me the machine, and the trade that runs the machine.
Sentence 203: Q.
Sentence 204: He didn't say.
Sentence 205: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 206: In some cases, yes; in some cases, no.
Sentence 207: The objective is to keep all the machines that will run seven days a week in operation seven days a week.
