Sentence 1: 1940 Press Conference 4

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I think you might as well all come in.
Sentence 3: It will save you running around to get a little piece here and a little piece there, getting an inaccurate story as a result, which you would otherwise have to do.
Sentence 4: Am I right, Fred [Mr. Essary]?
Sentence 5: Q.
Sentence 6: [Mr. Essary] Do it often.
Sentence 7: Q.
Sentence 8: It will also preserve Steve's [Mr. Early's] sleep too.
Sentence 9: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 10: That's right.
Sentence 11: Well, the story—let me put it this way: About a month ago it became apparent that we were coming to the end of the study period, and had learned thereby of certain needs.
Sentence 12: During the past month the various methods of organization to meet those needs have been studied, and all manner of suggestions have been received.
Sentence 13: There were two or three cardinal principles; and one of them is the fact that you cannot, under the Constitution, set up a second President of the United States.
Sentence 14: In other words, the Constitution states one man is responsible.
Sentence 15: Now that man can delegate, surely, but in the delegation he does not delegate away any part of the responsibility from the ultimate responsibility that rests on him.
Sentence 16: The second principle is that this is a Government of laws as well as of men; and the administrative procedure has to follow as closely as possible the laws of the United States, or there must be changes in the laws—one or the other.
Sentence 17: If it is possible to accomplish better organization through existing laws without asking for changes, that's the method of procedure.
Sentence 18: The third criterion is the thing that is so often forgotten by amateurs, and that is in every process of production there are three elements, which in practically no case are present in any one individual's experience.
Sentence 19: Let's take, as an illustration, any article: a gun, an airplane, an office desk, or a lamp.
Sentence 20: The three elements are, first, the combined element of the buyer and the user.
Sentence 21: Now, it is very important to turn out articles which are satisfactory for the buyer and the user.
Sentence 22: In the case of the national defense program the buyer and the user, because it is military and naval, are the two defense departments, the War Department and the Navy Department.
Sentence 23: That is one element.
Sentence 24: The other two elements are things we have talked about and written about-they are nothing new.
Sentence 25: They are management and labor.
Sentence 26: Number two is management, and number three, labor.
Sentence 27: Into the production of every article there go those two elements.
Sentence 28: As I said before, it is impossible to find any one "Czar" or "Poobah" or "Akhoond of Swats," who combines all three of those elements in his own person.
Sentence 29: Therefore, the amateurs who talk about sole responsibility in one man, prove their ignorance.
Sentence 30: Nobody ever found that paragon yet, and as I explained the other day, nobody did in the World War either.
Sentence 31: Fred
Sentence 32: [Mr. Essary] knows.
Sentence 33: I always use Fred because Fred and myself are contemporaries.
Sentence 34: The rest of you are just children.
Sentence 35: And, therefore, with those two primary considerations in mind, first, that if I could, I had to operate under existing law and, secondly, find some kind of organization to represent those three elements, I looked around and found what most everybody had forgotten.
Sentence 36: That was that a couple of years ago, in the first Reorganization Bill, wasn't it, Harold?
Sentence 37: [addressing Budget Director Harold Smith]—in the first Reorganization Bill, we provided a father for certain fatherless children.
Sentence 38: One of them was the Budget Bureau, as it was called in those days, and it had no father.
Sentence 39: So, under the Reorganization Bill, we set up in the office of the President of the United States, several offices, one of them the Bureau of the Budget, with a Director.
Sentence 40: There was another orphan, the National Resources Committee, as it was called at that time.
Sentence 41: It didn't belong to anybody.
Sentence 42: The Secretary of the Interior was on it but, obviously, it was doing as much work for other departments and agencies as for the Interior Department, so we set up that as an office under the President.
Sentence 43: And then there were certain remains of what used to be called the National Emergency Council, which had to be preserved, but it didn't belong in any one existing department of the Government.
Sentence 44: So we put the Office of Government Reports under the Executive Office of the President.
Sentence 45: There are the Administrative Assistants, that is another.
Sentence 46: Then there was a clause called Clause Six, which said—I can't quote, but in effect, "There is hereby authorized an Office for Emergency Management in the office of the President."
Sentence 47: But I told Congress at that time that there was no sufficient emergency to set it up.
Sentence 48: All I wanted was authority to set it up in case at any time in the future we needed it.
Sentence 49: So, there it is on the statute books, with very broad powers-real powers.
Sentence 50: Now, in that Office for Emergency Management, because of the powers given to it, I can do a number of things.
Sentence 51: And I am setting up in that authorized Office for Emergency Management a new organization called the Office of Production Management for Defense.
Sentence 52: You can leave off the two words "for Defense" if you want to.
Sentence 53: It will be called the "Office of Production Management.
Sentence 54: "
We then came down to the problem of how to simplify and concentrate responsibility.
Sentence 55: And coming back to the parable of the desk and the gun, or whatever it is that is made for defense, we still have those three elements.
Sentence 56: And therefore the Office of Production Management will consist of those three elements, divided among four people—the Director, Mr. Knudsen, and the Associate Director, Mr. Hillman.
Sentence 57: That gives you the two elements of management and labor; and the third element, which is what I call the buyer and the user, will be the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Navy, because the two of them put together are the buyer and the user of all these things that are turned out.
Sentence 58: You see the point?
Sentence 59: So from now on, the responsibility for turning out this production and purchasing, and priorities, those are the three important things—production, purchasing and priorities-will be in the Office of Production Management.
Sentence 60: Q.
Sentence 61: What becomes of the Defense Commission?
Sentence 62: THE PRESIDENT: I am coming to that now.
Sentence 63: The Defense Commission, the Advisory Commissioners to the Council of National Defense, remain just as they are exactly, because in the case of almost every one of the seven they have a great many functions, each one, which do not directly relate to production management, such as-well, I will give you some examples.
Sentence 64: For example: Stettinius, in his office, is responsible for the coordination of the entire steel production of the United States, of the problem of keeping on hand enough copper at all times, of providing enough wool at all times.
Sentence 65: Now, when you think of it, the majority of all steel produced goes to civilian and not to defense purposes.
Sentence 66: The overwhelming bulk of all copper that is used in the United States goes to civilian and not to defense purposes.
Sentence 67: The same thing is true of wool.
Sentence 68: The overwhelming majority of all the wool used goes into the clothing of the one hundred and twenty-five million people who are not in uniform.
Sentence 69: The same is true in the case of Chester Davis.
Sentence 70: The great bulk of all agricultural produce goes into civilian use rather than into Army and Navy use.
Sentence 71: The same thing is true of transportation—Ralph Budd.
Sentence 72: I suppose when this program gets going at its maximum capacity of production, somewhere between five and ten per cent of the transportation of this country will be defense transportation.
Sentence 73: The other ninety or ninety-five per cent will be normal civilian transportation.
Sentence 74: And so it goes.
Sentence 75: That is why there is a very definite need for the continuation of the work of these Advisory Commissioners.
Sentence 76: But they act strictly in accordance with what I have just said.
Sentence 77: The Advisory Commissioners, seven of them, each one responsible for his own field, in the coordination of the civilian life of the nation with this Office of Production Management.
Sentence 78: Now, there are three main heads that fall under the Office of Production Management.
Sentence 79: One is the actual production of more munitions, which would probably run as one organization—I mean, as one office, or two offices, or three offices—with some of the people who are at work at the present time.
Sentence 80: For instance, it might include Biggers.
Sentence 81: It might include Stettinius on the production of steel castings, aside from the collection of raw materials, which is a different thing.
Sentence 82: Anyway, it is separate.
Sentence 83: It is—what shall I say?
Sentence 84: what is the word?
Sentence 85: I hate the word "Bureau."
Sentence 86: Q. A Subdivision?
Sentence 87: THE PRESIDENT: It is a subdivision under this Office of Production Management, and it might have several bureaus in it.
Sentence 88: Then there is number two—the office with a director for defense purchasing, which will be headed, as it is today, by Don Nelson.
Sentence 89: Then there is the third subdivision, called the Defense Priorities Board, which may shift from time to time in its personnel.
Sentence 90: But at the present time it would be composed of Mr. Knudsen and Mr. Hillman; and Mr. Henderson on prices, because prices and priorities are intimately related.
Sentence 91: It would include Mr. Stettinius in that portion of his field which relates to raw materials, and Mr. Nelson, so that there will not be any clash between different articles.
Sentence 92: It would be run by an Administrator, who would carry out the orders of that Priorities Board.
Sentence 93: The reason is this—I will give you some simple examples for the sake of argument:
Suppose the production office wanted to buy some desks, and there was an awful shortage, and at the same time Mr. Nelson in the Division of Purchases wanted to buy a lot of desks.
Sentence 94: In view of this shortage there would be a conflict of priorities, and the two of them would take it to this Priorities Board, thresh the thing out, reach a decision and tell the Administrator how those desks were to be delivered.
Sentence 95: Now, that is the simplest thing.
Sentence 96: If you could have seen some of the charts, and suggestions and plans that have been made, you would give me a vote of thanks for having gotten out this simple evolution of the program.
Sentence 97: Q. Mr. President, will this be effective immediately?
Sentence 98: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 99: Yes.
Sentence 100: In other words, this being a Holiday Season, with Christmas coming, it will take a little time to get the wording of the Executive Orders—it will be done by Executive Order—and the total length of time to put it into actual effect will be eight, or say, ten days.
Sentence 101: And the orders will be coming along from time to time.
Sentence 102: Q. Mr. President, could I ask one question?
Sentence 103: You mentioned that Management and Labor are co-equal.
Sentence 104: Will Mr. Knudsen and Mr. Hillman have more or less co-equal positions on this?
Sentence 105: THE PRESIDENT: I think it is fair to assume you will get unanimous agreement.
Sentence 106: Q. Mr. President, in outlining these three subdivisions, you gave us a Director for defense purchasing and the membership of the Defense Priorities Board.
Sentence 107: Is there an actual Director of the Purchasing Commission?
Sentence 108: THE PRESIDENT: That I carefully did not give you the details on.
Sentence 109: I used the illustration that we might have one office or we might have one office with several bureaus in it.
Sentence 110: It is a matter of pure detail.
Sentence 111: Q. Mr. President, when you were describing it you named the Secretaries of War and Navy both.
Sentence 112: Does that mean they will vote as one, or have two votes?
Sentence 113: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 114: No, they will agree.
Sentence 115: They won't vote.
Sentence 116: I don't think you will ever find a vote taken.
Sentence 117: Q. Mr. President, will Mr. Nelson have contract signing powers for the Army and Navy?
Sentence 118: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 119: No, you can't do that under the law.
Sentence 120: He will plan, schedule and coordinate all defense purchases, and clear all contracts prior to execution.
Sentence 121: But, under the law, those contracts have to be signed by the Army and Navy.
Sentence 122: Q. Mr. President, is that designed, for example, to do away with conflicts which have arisen when Hillman, for example, did not know that a contract was to be awarded to the Ford Motor Company?
Sentence 123: THE PRESIDENT: Look here.
Sentence 124: [Holding up chart] That is all down on this line.
Sentence 125: Look at this chart.
Sentence 126: These three subdivisions-everything that is done—goes on up here between Knudsen and Hillman, and the War and Navy.
Sentence 127: Everything goes up that way.
Sentence 128: Q. Mr. President, does it seem to you that you have ample personnel at the present time to carry through this program?
Sentence 129: THE PRESIDENT: I should say so.
Sentence 130: Q. Mr. President, will the Commission continue to meet with you every week as it has been?
Sentence 131: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know.
Sentence 132: Q. Will they have headquarters in the White House by any chance?
Sentence 133: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 134: No, they will not.
Sentence 135: Q. Mr. President, do you think there will be a material speeding up of the program as a result of this?
Sentence 136: THE PRESIDENT: I didn't say that, because the program has been speeding up every twenty-four hours.
Sentence 137: Therefore, I would not put it that way.
Sentence 138: You see what I mean?
Sentence 139: And let me talk off the record to you on one other thing:
Sentence 140: The thing we talked over at the meeting just now is the kind of thing you can't print because people would say it was a slam at somebody.
Sentence 141: Do you realize that sometimes people have to get the country excited?
Sentence 142: Now, all right.
Sentence 143: The country needed to get excited.
Sentence 144: Therefore, I was tickled to death when Bill Knudsen told those people the other day that his airplane program was thirty per cent behind.
Sentence 145: Behind what?
Sentence 146: Did you ever think of that?
Sentence 147: He was trying to impress the United States with the need for speed, the need for pushing this thing.
Sentence 148: Grand!
Sentence 149: So I was very much pleased.
Sentence 150: But what is he behind?
Sentence 151: Let us analyze.
Sentence 152: He was behind an estimate, thirty per cent behind an estimate made back last August.
Sentence 153: Now, anybody that knows anything about it knows that he could have put it the other way around.
Sentence 154: If he wanted to, he could have said, "Last August when we didn't know anything about it, our estimate was thirty per cent too high.
Sentence 155: We estimated thirty per cent higher than the country could have done.
Sentence 156: "
Now, somewhere in there, actually in between the two, lies the real truth.
Sentence 157: And, personally, I think that the estimate of last August was impossible for human beings to have carried out.
Sentence 158: It was too high.
Sentence 159: Hold it to a rule of thumb-let's say it was fifteen per cent too high.
Sentence 160: Then we ought, if perfect, to have been fifteen per cent better than we have been.
Sentence 161: But the objective which he had in mind, which was a good one, was to get the people in this country a bit scared.
Sentence 162: He let them believe that we were actually thirty per cent behind and that we have to speed up to catch up.
Sentence 163: The reason I say "off the record" is that it is so terribly difficult to explain a thing like that in a story or radio speech to anybody else.
Sentence 164: But a psychological method like this is a very good one.
Sentence 165: Q. Mr. President, are they very off schedule?
Sentence 166: What do you expect to get?
Sentence 167: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 168: Well, it is the old story.
Sentence 169: You have heard it before, and I think it started with T. R.
Sentence 170: He said, "Always ask for twice as much as you expect to get.
Sentence 171: "
Q. Mr. President, as this now stacks up, will you be the top?
Sentence 172: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 173: No, I am not the top, except constitutionally.
Sentence 174: You cannot divest yourself of the responsibility of that.
Sentence 175: It rests in this office of which Knudsen is Director and Hillman Associate Director, and the Secretaries of War and Navy, who are the orderers and users, are the other two people.
Sentence 176: Q. Mr. President, just to what extent can you divest yourself of responsibility?
Sentence 177: THE PRESIDENT: I can't, under the Constitution.
Sentence 178: Q. Mr. President, will this Board have power to make decisions and all that, without referring them to you?
Sentence 179: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 180: Yes, sir.
Sentence 181: Q. Mr. President, you don't have to give the final approval?
Sentence 182: THE PRESIDENT: No, no, but believe me, if they make some kind of a decision which goes wrong, and I say that it is contrary to the national interest, I shall probably call them in and say, "Here, here, what is this?"
Q. Mr. President, will they have power to make long-range policy decisions and do planning on a broad gauge, such as increasing the ratio of planes that we are supplying to Britain?
Sentence 183: THE PRESIDENT: No, that is a military question.
Sentence 184: That is purely a military question.
Sentence 185: In other words, the policy is definitely outlined.
Sentence 186: Today we give everything to England that we can possibly spare in the judgment of the military experts.
