Sentence 1: 1940 Campaign Address Brooklyn New York

Mrs. Burke, Governor Lehman, Mr. Kelly:
Sentiment is a very wonderful and continuing thing in the human race.
Sentence 2: It has brought me back again to this old Brooklyn Academy of Music on the Friday night before election.
Sentence 3: This is a funny campaign.
Sentence 4: It is a strange campaign.
Sentence 5: Here it is almost the day of election and it is still impossible to determine what are the principles of the opposition party.
Sentence 6: What is it that the Republican leaders would do during the next four years if they were given a chance?
Sentence 7: They have made campaign speeches on all sides of all questions.
Sentence 8: On a Monday we hear that this Administration has done a good job in its foreign policy; but on Tuesday we hear the foreign policies of the United States condemned.
Sentence 9: On a Wednesday we understand that our policy toward agriculture should not be changed; and on Thursday we learn to our amazement that the farmers have been the victims of the New Deal and are forced to exist on a dole.
Sentence 10: And so it goes.
Sentence 11: On a Friday we are treated to the encouraging thought that the social gains of labor during the past seven years should be continued; and on Saturday we are told to weep because labor has been the principal sufferer under the New Deal.
Sentence 12: (Laughter)
Sentence 13: To one group, further and bigger relief is held out; and to the big taxpayers, cuts in expenditures are promised.
Sentence 14: One day they say they would continue our good neighbor policy; the next day they hurl insults at certain of our good neighbors to the south.
Sentence 15: That is the way they seek to catch a vote here and catch a vote there and pick one out of the air.
Sentence 16: There is, however, one explanation for these contradictions, rather a sad explanation.
Sentence 17: It is found in the very strange assortment of political bedfellows who have been brought together in the Republican political dormitory.
Sentence 18: Many conflicting interests, many irreconcilable social outlooks, many fundamentally opposite economic attitudes, have been thrown together under one political roof.
Sentence 19: The only common philosophy and the only common purpose they have is to get wholly rid of all the New Deal—lock, stock and barrel—and to get control of Government in their own hands for their own purposes.
Sentence 20: Just as they have not been able to foist their falsifications on the American people, they will never be able to foist this only common purpose of theirs upon the American people now.
Sentence 21: We will all see to that next Tuesday.
Sentence 22: We all know the story of the unfortunate chameleon which turned brown when placed on a brown rug, and turned red when placed on a red rug, but who died a tragic death when they put him on a Scotch plaid.
Sentence 23: We all know what would happen to Government if it tried to fulfill all the secret understandings and promises made between the conflicting groups which are now backing the Republican Party.
Sentence 24: There is something very ominous in this combination that has been forming within the Republican Party between the extreme reactionary and the extreme radical elements of this country.
Sentence 25: There is no common ground upon which they can unite—we know that-unless it be their common will to power, and their impatience with the normal democratic processes to produce overnight the inconsistent dictatorial ends that they, each of them, seek.
Sentence 26: No elements in American public life have made such vicious attacks upon each other in recent years as have the members of this new unholy alliance against each other.
Sentence 27: I do not think that some of the men, even some of the leaders, who have been drawn into this unholy alliance realize what a threat that sort of an alliance may bring to the future of democracy in this country.
Sentence 28: I am certain that the rank and file of patriotic Republicans do not realize the nature of this threat.
Sentence 29: They should remember, and we must remember, what the collaborative understanding between Communism and Naziism has done to the processes of democracy abroad.
Sentence 30: Something evil is happening in this country when a full page advertisement against this Administration, paid for by Republican supporters, appears—where, of all places?— in the Daily Worker, the newspaper of the Communist Party.
Sentence 31: Something evil is happening in this country when vast quantities of Republican campaign literature are distributed by organizations that make no secret of their admiration for the dictatorship form of government.
Sentence 32: Those forces hate democracy and Christianity as two phases of the same civilization.
Sentence 33: They oppose democracy because it is Christian.
Sentence 34: They oppose Christianity because it preaches democracy.
Sentence 35: Their objective is to prevent democracy from becoming strong and purposeful.
Sentence 36: We are strong and purposeful now and intend to remain so.
Sentence 37: Back in the 20's, in the years after the last World War, Americans worked and built many things, but few of our people then stopped to think why they were working and why they were building and whither they were tending.
Sentence 38: Those were the days when prosperity was measured only by the stock ticker.
Sentence 39: There were the factory workers forced to labor long hours at low wages in sweat-shop conditions.
Sentence 40: They could look forward to no security in their old age.
Sentence 41: They could look forward to no insurance during periods of unemployment.
Sentence 42: There were the farmers of the Nation, overburdened with debt and with farm surpluses, their income vanishing, their farms threatened with foreclosure.
Sentence 43: There were the natural resources of the land, being wasted-soil, forests, minerals and water power.
Sentence 44: There were millions of workers, unable to organize to protect their livelihoods, unable to form trade unions.
Sentence 45: There were the small businesses of the Nation, threatened by the monopolies of concentrated wealth.
Sentence 46: The savings of the many were entrusted to supposedly great financiers, who were to lose those savings in fantastic adventures of giant holding companies and giant investment trusts.
Sentence 47: The crash came as it had to come.
Sentence 48: And then for three years the American people waited and suffered.
Sentence 49: For three years the American Government did nothing to help.
Sentence 50: In 1933, the American people began to bestir themselves.
Sentence 51: They had come to learn that inaction offered no escape from the problems of a troubled and changing world.
Sentence 52: The American people determined then and there that what could not be done by individual effort could be done through joint effort; that what the industrial and financial leaders could not do, or would not do, a democratic Government could do and would do!
Sentence 53: You all know the history of recovery, beginning in 1933, and progressing ever since.
Sentence 54: Our economic system began again to function.
Sentence 55: Then came the suggestion from monopolistic finance that while the Government had done a good rescue job, the best thing it could do at that point was to forget all about it, and to turn the whole economic system back to Wall Street to run again.
Sentence 56: But they little knew the temper of the American people.
Sentence 57: The New Deal was no mere rescue party to restore to a chosen few their old power over the people's savings, the people's labor, the people's lives.
Sentence 58: We had seen social unrest at home and abroad— the frustrated hopes of common men and women, the apathy which is the forerunner of cynicism, the despair which dissolves civilization.
Sentence 59: What this Administration was determined to do was to save America from that frustration and from that despair.
Sentence 60: We all remember how negligible was the opposition that this Administration met in the early days when it was cleaning up the wreckage, which had come from the era of speculation.
Sentence 61: The bitter opposition from Republican leaders did not come until a little later.
Sentence 62: It came when this Administration made it clear that we were not merely salvaging a few things from the past, but that we were determined to make our system of private enterprise and private profit work more efficiently, more democratically, to fill the demands and needs of all the people of this land.
Sentence 63: We understand the philosophy of those who offer resistance, of those who conduct a counter offensive against the American people's march of social progress.
Sentence 64: It is not an opposition which comes necessarily from wickedness—it is an opposition that comes from subconscious resistance to any measure that disturbs the position of privilege.
Sentence 65: It is an unfortunate human failing that a full pocketbook often groans more loudly than an empty stomach.
Sentence 66: I am, as you know, a firm believer in private enterprise and in private property.
Sentence 67: I am a firm believer in the American opportunity of men and women to rise in private enterprise.
Sentence 68: But, of course, if private opportunity is to remain safe, average men and women must be able to have it as a part of their own individual satisfaction in life and their own stake in democracy.
Sentence 69: With that in view, we have pushed ahead with social and economic reforms, determined that this period in American life should be written down as an heroic era—an era in which men fought not merely to preserve a past, but to build a future.
Sentence 70: You and I have seen nations great and small go down in ruin, or get backed up against the wall, because the reactionary men who led them could not see the real danger that threatened.
Sentence 71: They were afraid of losing their own selfish privilege and power.
Sentence 72: They feared the legitimate forward surge of their own common people, more than they feared the menacing might of foreign dictators.
Sentence 73: From them, we in the United States take warning.
Sentence 74: Most Republican leaders in our own country for the last seven years have bitterly fought and blocked that forward surge of average men and women in their pursuit of happiness.
Sentence 75: And let us not be deluded that overnight those leaders have suddenly become the real friends of these average men and women.
Sentence 76: Do you believe that the bulk of the money to finance this vast Republican campaign is being provided by people who have the interests of the common man at heart?
Sentence 77: You know, very few of us are that gullible.
Sentence 78: Oh, they may say at election time that they approve the social gains and social objectives of the last seven years.
Sentence 79: But I say that these men have not yet proven that they even understand what these social gains or social objectives have been.
Sentence 80: The people throughout this country know how many and how difficult were the battles that we have fought and won in the last seven years.
Sentence 81: Do you want to abandon the protection of people's savings from fraudulent manipulators, the curbing of giant holding companies that despoiled investors and consumers alike, by delivering them into the hands of those who have fought those reforms?
Sentence 82: Do you want to abandon the responsibility for the well-being of those who live and work on the farms of the Nation to those who fought against the farm program every inch of the way?
Sentence 83: Do you want to abandon collective bargaining, the outlawing of child labor, the minimum wage, the time-and-a-half for overtime, the elimination of sweat-shop conditions, by turning them over to the proven enemies of labor?
Sentence 84: Do you want to hamstring the old-age pension system, or unemployment insurance, or aid for children, or maternity welfare, or vocational training for the physically handicapped, or financial aid to the blind by delivering them into the hands of those who have fought and misrepresented those reforms?
Sentence 85: Do you want to abandon slum clearance to those Republican leaders who have fought against every appropriation for decent housing?
Sentence 86: Do you want to turn over your Government to those who failed to have confidence in the future of America and who now preach fear for the future of America?
Sentence 87: As an example of that doctrine of fear, certain insurance companies are now sending letters to their policyholders, warning them that if this Administration is retained in office, their policies will shrink in value.
Sentence 88: That is just another form of things we have seen before, another form, for instance, of that pay-envelope campaign—that campaign of fear of the last week of 1936.
Sentence 89: The fact is that the very existence of most of these insurance companies I speak of was saved by this Administration in 1933.
Sentence 90: They are today more solvent than they ever were before.
Sentence 91: If there were a vestige of truth in these dangerous forebodings, the bonds of the United States Government would be selling at a very low price, instead of well above par.
Sentence 92: Why, it was only last week that the Treasury of the United States sold some one-year bonds, to pay for public housing—one hundred million dollars worth of them at an interest rate of only one-quarter of one per cent.
Sentence 93: And I must not forget to mention that that bond issue was over-subscribed eighteen times.
Sentence 94: That certainly indicates the solidity of the credit of the United States.
Sentence 95: And if you need further proof, take a look at the statement of the Commonwealth and Southern System.
Sentence 96: There you will find that they have bought and hold twenty-one million dollars of United States Government bonds!
Sentence 97: Our program in the past, our program for the future, is, as you know, equality of economic opportunity.
Sentence 98: Such a program calls for many things.
Sentence 99: It requires an orderly settlement of industrial disputes not by those devoted to company unions, but by agencies alert to the requirements of labor and mindful of the responsibilities of industry.
Sentence 100: This program entails old-age insurance and unemployment insurance, operating on an increasingly wider base, so that eventually it will include every man and woman in the country.
Sentence 101: It makes available cheap credit to impoverished tenants, to consumers, and to small business.
Sentence 102: In fact, it has always seemed to me that our program starts with small business, so that it may grow and flourish.
Sentence 103: It curbs the old predatory activities of high finance and monopoly practices.
Sentence 104: It guarantees that our national resources are used for the benefit of the whole people—and not exploited for the benefit of a few.
Sentence 105: It provides for the resettlement of farmers from marginal lands to richer lands, and for farm ownership for enslaved tenants.
Sentence 106: Monopoly does not like this program.
Sentence 107: Certain types of high finance do not like it.
Sentence 108: Most of the American plutocracy do not like it.
Sentence 109: But the vast majority of American business, the backbone of American business, continues to grow and flourish under it.
Sentence 110: For that business is interested in reasonable profits, not in promoters' tribute.
Sentence 111: That business is interested in freedom from monopolistic restraints and economic imperialism.
Sentence 112: That business knows that the farmers and the workers, the great mass of our citizens, have never asked for more than equality and fair play.
Sentence 113: We are a nation of many nationalities, many races, many religions-bound together by a single unity, the unity of freedom and equality.
Sentence 114: Whoever seeks to set one nationality against another, seeks to degrade all nationalities.
Sentence 115: Whoever seeks to set one race against another seeks to enslave all races.
Sentence 116: Whoever seeks to set one religion against another, seeks to destroy all religion.
Sentence 117: So-called racial and religious voting blocs are the creation of designing politicians who profess to be able to deliver them on Election Day.
Sentence 118: But every American citizen—realizing how precious is his right to the sacred secret ballot—does scorn and will scorn such unpatriotic politicians.
Sentence 119: The vote of Americans will be American—and only American.
Sentence 120: The true attitude of some leaders of the Republican party toward the common man is not frequently revealed, but occasionally their true feelings break through the restraints which a political campaign places upon their tongues, and suddenly they misspeak themselves.
Sentence 121: We can then see their true sentiments in all their naked unloveliness.
Sentence 122: In a Republican campaign speech the other day, a prominent leader of the Philadelphia bar delivered himself in these words, quoted in The New York Times.
Sentence 123: "The President's only supporters," he said, "are paupers, those who earn less than $1,200 a year and aren't worth that, and the Roosevelt family.
Sentence 124: "
I think we might just as well forget the Roosevelt family, but these Americans whom this man calls "paupers," these Americans who, in his view, are not worth the income they receive, small though it is—who are they?
Sentence 125: They are only millions and millions of American families, constituting a very large part of the Nation!
Sentence 126: They are only the common men and women who have helped build this country, who have made it great, and who would defend it with their lives if the need arose.
Sentence 127: The demand for social and economic justice comes from those who receive less than $1,200 a year, but not from them alone.
Sentence 128: For I believe that when Americans cross this dividing line of $100 a month, they do not lose their devotion to social and economic justice.
Sentence 129: They do not suddenly become greedy and selfish.
Sentence 130: And I count among my supporters millions of other men and women who vote by the dictates of their hearts and minds, and not by the size of their bank accounts.
Sentence 131: "Paupers" who are not worth their salt—there speaks the true sentiment of the Republican leadership in this year of grace.
Sentence 132: Can the Republican leaders deny that all this all-too-prevailing Republican sentiment is a direct, vicious, unpatriotic appeal to class hatred and class contempt?
Sentence 133: That, my friends, is just what I am fighting against with all my heart and soul.
Sentence 134: I am only fighting for a free America—for a country in which all men and women have equal rights to liberty and justice.
Sentence 135: I am fighting against the revival of Government by special privilege- Government by lobbyists- Government vested in the hands of those who favor and who would have us imitate the foreign dictatorships.
Sentence 136: I am fighting, as I always have fought, for the rights of the little man as well as the big man—for the weak as well as the strong, for those who are helpless as well as for those who can help themselves.
Sentence 137: I am fighting to keep this Nation prosperous and at peace.
Sentence 138: I am fighting to keep our people out of foreign wars, and to keep foreign conceptions of Government out of our own United States.
Sentence 139: I am fighting for these great and good causes.
Sentence 140: I am fighting to defend them against the power and might of those who now rise up to challenge them.
Sentence 141: And I will not stop fighting.
