Sentence 1: 1940 Press Conference 5

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I think I can call your attention to the flood of mail and telegrams that has been coming in since Sunday night—we have not finished opening and examining them yet—from people offering help, almost every known way.
Sentence 3: About half of them— for instance, Steve
Sentence 4: [Mr. Early] says they have examined two thousand letters already and that is by no means all that have come in—of course there are an awful lot of telegrams, too—about half of them offering personal services, retired officers of the last war, dollar-a-year men, other experts, engineers, physicians, pilots, chemists, et cetera, and a very large number from local labor unions, Chambers of Commerce, and various business associations, offering the services of their groups.
Sentence 5: A great many offers of sites for manufacturing purposes, are coming from public officials or Chambers of Commerce.
Sentence 6: A great many factories in toto are being offered for various purposes.
Sentence 7: Shipbuilding plants, furniture companies, manganese mines, airplane plants, bedding companies, aviation mechanics training schools, canning company, machine tool company, another airplane company, a shirt factory, another bedding company, a general contracting company, an aviation ground school, a cigar company, a publishing company, a motion-picture company, yacht, tool and die makers, financial experts in aviation, et cetera and so on.
Sentence 8: In other words, they are coming in from all over the country.
Sentence 9: In addition to that, prior to what I said about the Red Cross the other day, I had a great many checks actually mailed in that had been received.
Sentence 10: Of course they go straight over to the Red Cross.
Sentence 11: One gentleman sat down Sunday night and sent me a check for $15,000 for the Red Cross.
Sentence 12: That happens to be the biggest, but there are a lot of others, very sizable ones.
Sentence 13: In other words, the answer has been fine all over the country.
Sentence 14: I am very, very appreciative of it and I think people understand the seriousness of the situation.
Sentence 15: At the same time, I think people should realize that we are not going to upset, any more than we have to, a great many of the normal processes of life.
Sentence 16: There is one of the ladies in the room, for instance, who was going to ask that question, and wanted to know whether we are not only going to have no new automobiles next year, new models, but whether it means a lot of other things that could be put into the luxury class would have to be foregone by the population—I am not looking at anybody; I am looking at the ceiling—the answer is that this delightful young lady will not have to forego cosmetics, lipsticks, ice-cream sodas and(Laughter)
Q.
Sentence 17: [Miss FLEESON]
Sentence 18: Thank you, Mr. President.
Sentence 19: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT: All right, Doris.
Sentence 20: That does it.
Sentence 21: In other words-we do not want to upset the normal trend of things any more than we possibly can help.
Sentence 22: Now that brings me down, by logical sequence, to the size of this present program.
Sentence 23: This is not like April, 1917—
Sentence 24: Fred [Mr. Essary] and I remember those days; very few other people here do—when we were attempting to organize an army of 4,000,000 men.
Sentence 25: We have not, certainly at this time, that in mind.
Sentence 26: I suppose the easiest way to put it is this way, in terms of dollars: Roughly speaking, at the present time we are spending about two billion dollars a year on the Army and Navy, and this new program superimposes only a little over a billion and a quarter upon that existing program.
Sentence 27: Of course, the speed of the World War was infinitely greater because of the size of the Army we were putting together.
Sentence 28: Therefore, this is not complete, immediate national mobilization.
Sentence 29: We are not talking at the present time about a draft system, either to draft men or women or money or all three.
Sentence 30: We are trying to expend about a billion and a quarter dollars more than the normal process.
Sentence 31: And in order to do that, it has seemed wise to put into effect what has been ready and planned for, for a long, long time, under an existing statute, without having to go and propose something entirely new in the way of legislation that would take weeks and months and a great deal of pro and con discussion, partisan and otherwise, and would probably end up in practically the same thing that we have on the statute books now.
Sentence 32: In other words, I am reviving the Commission and the Council of National Defense, which is provided for under the old law.
Sentence 33: The old law of 1916 set up the Council.
Sentence 34: The Council consists merely of six Cabinet Officers, who will meet every Friday anyway and who work and who are expected to work on the coordination of the whole picture, through this Commission, which is set up under Title—Section II of the Act.
Sentence 35: The Council nominates to the President and the President appoints this Commission of not more than seven persons who are supposed to be made up of people with special knowledge in certain very wide field or fields.
Sentence 36: They are to serve without compensation, except that their expenses are paid, and they would perform essentially the functions of several of the old war bodies, including the Munitions Board.
Sentence 37: Now, of course, nearly all you young people think the Munitions Board built things.
Sentence 38: They did not.
Sentence 39: I, for instance, was Assistant Secretary of the Navy during that whole period, and when we wanted some structural steel for new destroyers, we would go to the Munitions Board and say to them, "We want this and here are the different firms that can turn these out.
Sentence 40: What is the condition of those firms?"
Sentence 41: The Munitions Board would know—and this Commission of the Council of National Defense, they would have the same information, they would act as a clearing house—and they would tell us that, let us say, Bethlehem was chockablock on that type of steel—just using this as an illustration—but that Carnegie could fill it and would we please place the order with Carnegie.
Sentence 42: And we would say, "How about price?"
Sentence 43: and they would say, "We have got that all fixed up; we have got a definite schedule of prices."
Sentence 44: So the order would go to Carnegie for all this structural steel.
Sentence 45: Then we were required to make a .report to the Munitions Board, as a report would have to be made to this Commission of the Council of National Defense, every week, as to how the order was coming along.
Sentence 46: The Navy, of course, placed the order—the Army placed their own orders—and if the order was not being turned out with sufficient.
Sentence 47: speed, if we were dissatisfied, it would be the Munitions Board, or here the Commission of the Council of National Defense, which would find out why the order was being delayed.
Sentence 48: Then when the order was ready for shipment, in those days we would notify the Railroad Commission—that was Mr. Dan Willard—that the stuff was ready to ship and he would try to see to it that there wasn't any bottleneck in the transportation of that steel from the manufacturing plant down to the shipyard where it would go into the destroyer.
Sentence 49: This obviates a part of that old trouble of having to go to different places, because these seven people who are set up here on this Commission cover, for the present, the various fields of activity that have to be coordinated.
Sentence 50: Now that is the way the thing works.
Sentence 51: The Commission would act as the coordinating agency for Government orders and the Government order having been approved by the Commission as to which place it should go, and the price at which it is contracted for, is then turned over to the manufacturing plant; and from then on, if there is any question of delay, either in manufacturing or in transportation, this same Commission tries to get the kinks out of the delay and any kinks out of the transportation itself.
Sentence 52: Of course, at the present time, as we all know, on the transportation end there aren't any kinks because the railroads are fully capable of carrying all of the present volume of business speedily and quickly.
Sentence 53: And then, of course, there are other things we have to think about, and that is why, through these seven people, we have taken in practically all of the necessary activities of civilized life in the United States at the present time, including cosmetics.
Sentence 54: (Laughter)
Q. Have you the name of the director?
Sentence 55: I believe the old Council had a director in addition to the Cabinet Officers.
Sentence 56: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 57: No, I do not think so.
Sentence 58: It has a secretary and the man who will act as secretary to this Commission, the Advisory Commission to the Council of National Defense, is going to be our old friend McReynolds
Sentence 59: [William H.], for the very good reason that he knows every statute on the statute books and knows what each Government department or agency does, which very few outsiders when they first come down to Washington do know about.
Sentence 60: It generally takes them two or three months before they learn their way around the Capitol, or even the Department of Commerce Building.
Sentence 61: (Laughter)
The seven people will handle the following:
Sentence 62: No. 1, industrial materials: that is, Mr. Edward R. Stettinius, Jr.
Sentence 63: Now what do we mean by "industrial materials"?
Sentence 64: Starting with—using this illustration: the ore in the Mesabi Range—getting that ore out of the ground, getting it down through the Great Lakes to the steel plant, making the steel billet, and then, the next step, making the unfinished piece of steel, the rolled steel or the tin plate or the block, the engine block, before there is any machining done on it.
Sentence 65: In other words, not the finished article.
Sentence 66: You see the difference.
Sentence 67: Everything up to but not including the finished article.
Sentence 68: Now, to use the same analogy, that is Stettinius' job—
Q.
Sentence 69: [interposing] Mr. President, of course we know who Stettinius is, but would you mind identifying these people as you go along?
Sentence 70: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 71: He is Chairman of the Board of Directors of the United States Steel Corporation.
Sentence 72: And then the next one is the man in charge of industrial production.
Sentence 73: The first (Stettinius) is the materials man up to the making of the finished article.
Sentence 74: Then the man that runs industrial production—that means turning out the tank itself and the engine for the tank; the plane itself and the engine of the plane.
Sentence 75: I would even go into textiles: the uniform and the dungarees—he will be Mr. William S. Knudsen, President of the General Motors Corporation.
Sentence 76: Mr. Knudsen has accepted subject to check with his corporation.
Sentence 77: In other words, he had not taken it up with them when I talked with him and he is going to let me know tomorrow.
Sentence 78: Q. Has Mr. Stettinius accepted?
Sentence 79: THE PRESIDENT: Mr. Stettinius—all the others have accepted.
Sentence 80: Q. Is this a full-time occupation for these men for a while?
Sentence 81: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 82: Well, I shall come to that.
Sentence 83: Will you ask me that again when I am finished?
Sentence 84: Some are and some are not.
Sentence 85: Those are the two on the industrial end.
Sentence 86: Then, of course, we have to tie in all of these other things that have to go with it; the question of employment as a general thing, well, means employment in plants.
Sentence 87: It means employment in apprenticeship; like the NYA; teaching the CCC boys to do noncombatant work; turning out ground crews for aviation fields; turning out—this sounds silly but it has turned out to be quite an important thing—turning out cooks for the Army and Navy for camps.
Sentence 88: We have a terrible shortage of cooks.
Sentence 89: Turning out radiomen, communications people, things of that kind, this general subject of employment, of a noncombatant class.
Sentence 90: And Mr. Sidney Hillman, President of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, will be in charge of that.
Sentence 91: I will tell you, off the record—but for heaven's sake do not attribute it to me because somebody will call me name she is just half way between John Lewis and Bill Green.
Sentence 92: (Laughter)
Q.
Sentence 93: [MR. GODWIN]
Sentence 94: Very well taken.
Sentence 95: THE PRESIDENT: That is for guidance but not attribution.(Laughter)
Q.
Sentence 96: [MR. GODWIN]
Sentence 97: Half way to what?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 98: Then, of course, the next big subject is farm products because they all fit into the general picture.
Sentence 99: Farm products for our own consumption and farm products for shipment outside of the country—and I am asking Mr. Chester C. Davis, who is now on the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, to handle the coordination of that.
Sentence 100: Then the next is transportation, and Mr. Ralph Budd has been ready, since last September, to take over that—all transportation.
Sentence 101: Q. Will you identify him, sir?
Sentence 102: I have forgotten where he comes from.
Sentence 103: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 104: Ralph Budd is Director of the American Railway Engineering Association but I think— Isn't he Chairman of the Board of the C. B. & Q. too?
Sentence 105: Q.
Sentence 106: The Burlington, yes.
Sentence 107: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 108: Then you come to two elements that we have to take care of.
Sentence 109: I suggested this in my speech the other night-trying to stabilize prices.
Sentence 110: The first is the raw material price, and the man who has had the greatest experience in it, representing the Government but also apparently getting on extremely well with a lot of industries, is Leon Henderson, who will do that in addition to his present SEC job, and at the present time, coming back—well, I shall come back to that later—that is not a full-time job.
Sentence 111: And finally, the adviser on consumer protection, which is very important, Doris
Sentence 112: [Miss Fleeson], and we have asked, and she has accepted it subject to the president of her university letting her go, Miss Harriet Elliott, Dean of Women at the University of North Carolina, who has had very long experience in the problems of consumer prices.
Sentence 113: Now, coming back to your question, obviously the first two, Mr. Stettinius and Mr. Knudsen, have full-time jobs, right away.
Sentence 114: On the employment angle, that will be almost a full-time job from the start, especially in setting up all this training work.
Sentence 115: The adviser on farm products, Mr. Davis, that, I think, from now on, for a while anyway, will be a part-time job.
Sentence 116: Mr. Budd's will definitely be a part-time job; and the first of his work will be setting up the machinery which would become necessary if we get into a transportation jam later on.
Sentence 117: The main thing for him to do now is to set up his machinery to meet a potential future jam.
Leon Henderson's, as I suggested, is a part-time job.
Sentence 118: Of course, on price stabilization of raw materials there is very little that needs to be done at the present time, and he would set up what might be called a statistical office to keep in touch with price trends from now on.
Sentence 119: In the same way, Miss Harriet Elliott's is only a setting-up job, because she will have to get her machinery to give her, from day to day, the trends on consumer prices in different parts of the country.
Sentence 120: Then they are to meet here on Thursday with me, and the work will start.
Sentence 121: As I said, McReynolds will act as secretary to this body and be a clearinghouse, in a sense, himself.
Sentence 122: For example, this list of factories and sites, et cetera and so on, would go right to Mac as the secretary of this group of seven; and he would give a copy of each of the things to each of the group of seven so that we could avail ourselves of the offers that have been made in case the group of seven finds we need it.
Sentence 123: In the same way, the people who have offered their personal services, all of these letters would go over to Mac.
Sentence 124: They would be listed and turned over to these people who would have to set up certain machinery with new personnel.
Sentence 125: And, finally, I think the last part of the story is that I am adding probably two more Administrative Assistants to the President, but I am not yet ready to give you the names.
Sentence 126: That will be in a few days.
Sentence 127: Q. Mr. President, another phase of this program—these new taxes, new national defense taxes that are going to be imposed: Do you believe that some of them should be consumers' taxes, rather? . . .
Sentence 128: THE PRESIDENT: My general idea has been that it would be, in effect, a little of what I did in my last year as governor.
Sentence 129: I was not getting any money at all from Washington for relief, and I had to raise a lot of money to take care of the State of New York's relief, so we put on a flat percentage tax on all existing State taxes.
Sentence 130: Well, the easiest way of describing it down here, is that any one of you lucky fellows who paid an income tax of a thousand dollars a year, would have to pay another hundred dollars, and if you had to pay a liquor tax, you would have to pay 10 per cent more.
Sentence 131: In other words, a slight percentage additional tax, based on the percentage of what the present taxes are.
Sentence 132: Q.
Sentence 133: That percentage would be up, on the basis of your income now, would be up—
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 134: [interposing]: About six or seven hundred million dollars.
Sentence 135: Q.
Sentence 136: It would have to be a 25 per cent increase, wouldn't it?
Sentence 137: THE PRESIDENT: Ten per cent.
Sentence 138: Your taxes are bringing in now around six billion, six and a half billion.
Sentence 139: Q.
Sentence 140: That is all taxes?
Sentence 141: THE PRESIDENT: All taxes, yes.
Sentence 142: Q. That includes social security?
Sentence 143: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 144: Oh, no; that is out.
Sentence 145: That is out.
Sentence 146: Q.
Sentence 147: All excise taxes?[The President indicated in the affirmative.]
Sentence 148: Q. Did you say this Commission had no chairman?
Sentence 149: Did you say there is no chairman of this Commission?
Sentence 150: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 151: May [Miss Craig], I do not know.
Sentence 152: Why bring up the subject?
Sentence 153: I don't know.
Sentence 154: Q.
Sentence 155: It is hard to function without a chairman.
Sentence 156: THE PRESIDENT: Let Mac [Mr. McReynolds] be the chairman; he is the secretary.
Sentence 157: In other words, let the secretary call the meeting together.
Sentence 158: I do not know what the procedure will be.
Sentence 159: I do not think it will be formal.
Sentence 160: I think it will get on.
Sentence 161: Q. Will you have to have a special appropriation to finance this Commission, or have you the funds out of which to pay?
THE PRESIDENT: I do not know.
Sentence 162: It will be a very small amount, less than a million dollars.
Sentence 163: Q. Have you decided where this Commission is going to be housed?
Sentence 164: THE PRESIDENT: Going to be housed?
Sentence 165: Oh, Gosh!
Sentence 166: I do not know.(Laughter)
