Sentence 1: 1940 Press Conference 8

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I apologize for my coatless condition.
Sentence 3: I did not have time to put it on.
Sentence 4: It is a somewhat timeworn excuse but a perfectly good one.
Sentence 5: There are a lot of things I could tell you but of course I know you will understand that there are probably a good many things it is better not to discuss in too much detail these days.
Sentence 6: They are somewhat difficult days for the whole world.
Sentence 7: I am sending up to Congress, this message on national defense.
Sentence 8: I do not know yet whether it will be tomorrow or Thursday; it depends on whether I get the figures in and whether I have time tonight to dictate a message to go with the figures.
Sentence 9: If I get through with it, it will go up tomorrow, and if I do not, it will go up on Thursday.
Sentence 10: I cannot give you any figures because I am not ready yet.
Sentence 11: I am afraid it will be pretty high; and I think it should be made clear that there are two primary reasons for doing it at this time.
Sentence 12: The first is the matter of what has been gained in the way of knowledge from experience in the last two months.
Sentence 13: The other is the—what shall I call it?— progress of military events which inevitably, in the last few weeks, has brought the defense picture of the United States a little closer to the United States.
Sentence 14: I do not think there is anything more in particular that I can say about it.
Sentence 15: I think Steve
Sentence 16: [Mr. Early] told you about a simile that I used this morning.
Sentence 17: If there is a fire in a big city, it is almost inevitably going to affect the expenditures of the city in the following fiscal year; and it may affect even the real estate values—in other words, the tax collections—in the following fiscal year.
Sentence 18: But the newspaper men and women who are covering the fire do not make the following ¥ear's budget the lead of their stories.
Sentence 19: It is a homely way of putting it, that you will all understand.
Sentence 20: This defense appropriation and contract authorization run to a large sum of money.
Sentence 21: Of course, it is going to be paid for by the Government some day, but the main thing to do is to put the money to work at the present time.
Sentence 22: It can come, of course, out of taxes or it can come out of borrowings, or it can come out of a combination of the two; but the important thing is national defense rather than the next year's method of payment.
Sentence 23: So I am suggesting, very gently, how I would write the lead.
Sentence 24: (Laughter)
Sentence 25: Q. Mr. President, yesterday on the floor of the Senate there was considerable point made of the fact that we spent about six billion dollars on national defense in this Administration, and the question was raised whether we had got our money's worth out of it.
Sentence 26: What do you figure as to that?
Sentence 27: Do you think there is just criticism in that, or not?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 28: Well, I will ask you what you think.
Sentence 29: Q.
Sentence 30: What?
THE PRESIDENT: I will ask you what you think.
Sentence 31: Q.
Sentence 32: I do not believe: that is why I am asking you.
Sentence 33: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 34: Well, I hoped that you would know because it seems so perfectly obvious.
Sentence 35: In other words, these expenditures have been for two things primarily.
Sentence 36: One has been to keep up with the expenditures in other countries, and, as far as the best information we could get, we have been spending the money for the same kind of military equipment as other nations have been doing.
Sentence 37: We have felt that we were up-to-dale in what we were doing.
Sentence 38: Of course that type of equipment costs a lot of money.
Sentence 39: That was one thing—to keep abreast of this race of armaments that was forced on us and to do it the same way that the military and naval experts all over the rest of the world were doing it.
Sentence 40: The other reason was that, beginning in '33, we had to make up for a lot of lost time.
Sentence 41: In other words, as you know, the Navy had had very, very little money spent on it between nineteen hundred and—the end of 1921 and 1922, the Disarmament Conference, and 1933.
Sentence 42: There was a great deal of replacement that had to be done, a great many gaps that had to be filled; and of course the Army was in exactly the same position.
Sentence 43: So we had, first of all, to catch up and, having caught up, we had to keep up.
Sentence 44: Practically all of these new expenditures are for needs that have been developed by the modern competitive methods of actual war- the new things.
Sentence 45: The airplane for which appropriation was made in 1935 at great cost, delivered, say, a year and a half or two years later, is today on the scrapheap.
Sentence 46: The Navy ships—our ships are probably the equal of any ships in the world—have to have certain alterations made to them.
Sentence 47: Besides you have to have new ships of slightly different design because of the experiences of the past few weeks; and that will be done in every navy.
Sentence 48: Those are just the high spots.
Sentence 49: I think the rest of the story speaks for itself.
Sentence 50: Q. Will your message deal solely with appropriations or will it require some authorizations also?
Sentence 51: THE PRESIDENT: I suppose it will take some authorizations; and, as to the appropriations, it will take two things: it will take actual appropriations for the expenditure of money out of the Treasury in the fiscal year 1941 and also the authorization to make an additional amount of contracts which would not have to be paid for until the year 1942.
Sentence 52: Q. Mr. President, has there been any revival of the discussion of the need for a two-ocean Navy, in view of the German gains in the air over the British fleet?
Sentence 53: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 54: Well, when you talk about a two-ocean Navy in regard to our naval defense, I don't know.
Sentence 55: I think it probably goes back to the days of—when did we first get California?
Sentence 56: 1847, wasn't it?
Sentence 57: Q. Yes, sir.
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT: In other words, it is an entirely outmoded conception of naval defense, and it has been since about 1847 when we first acquired California.
Sentence 59: I just never discuss two ocean Navy in one way or the other, because it is not sensible to talk of naval defense in those terms. . .
Sentence 60: .
Sentence 61: Of course you are supposed to have a Navy that will go anywhere for national defense purposes, and no human being can say where it will have to go—nobody.
Sentence 62: Q. Isn't it conceivable we may have to split the fleet if something happened out in the Netherlands Indies and then—
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 63: I am afraid that is a leading question.
Sentence 64: Q.
Sentence 65: It would take ten years to create another navy like this one?
Sentence 66: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 67: Yes, and then— Suppose you got an attack from three angles instead of two
Sentence 68: and then you would have to have three navies.
Sentence 69: In other words, it really, honestly, is an outworn conception that nobody who knows anything about defense would ever use.
Sentence 70: Nobody has ever used that term that knew anything about defense.
Sentence 71: Q. Mr. President, if we cannot have a two-ocean Navy, would it be logical to have two canals between the Atlantic and the Pacific?
Sentence 72: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 73: Personally, I wish we had ten canals because the more communications you have, which are capable, more 'or less, of defending, the better it is.
Sentence 74: I wish there weren't any isthmus.
Sentence 75: I wish there were a big open space down there.
Sentence 76: Q. Mr. President, I do not mind seeming dumb, but if we have two oceans why wouldn't it be a good idea to have two complete Navies, one for each?
Sentence 77: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 78: Well, because, May [Miss Craig], it is just exactly like Portland, Maine.
Sentence 79: If you break things down in those terms, we ought to have Navy ships at the mouth of every harbor to protect that harbor against any possible attacking for us because, you see, they might attack Portland, Maine, and Boston, Massachusetts, at the same time.
Sentence 80: Now, wouldn't that be awful?
Sentence 81: You really ought to have two navies.
Sentence 82: Q.
Sentence 83: Well, I just do not think that is the same thing because you have got oceans—
THE PRESIDENT [interposing]: That is what you call reductio adabsur dum.
Sentence 84: Q.
Sentence 85: What is the answer then, larger fleets of bombing ships?.
Sentence 86: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 87: What?
Sentence 88: Q.
Sentence 89: What is the answer, then, flying fortresses?
Sentence 90: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 91: Now you are coming down to the old relativity business.
Sentence 92: You have to be complete and perfect as far as you can be, and as far as you can afford to be, in every weapon of war.
Sentence 93: In other words, as I was saying to a couple of the Chairmen of the House and Senate this afternoon—now, you can use this in terms of an army or in terms of a fleet—in terms of an army, if you have two equal armies in every weapon except one, let us say what, light artillery?—equal in heavy artillery, equal in machine guns, equal in infantry, equal in the air, the army that has no light artillery is going to be beaten by the army that has light artillery.
Sentence 94: The army that has no airplanes is going to be beaten by the army that has airplanes.
Sentence 95: In the case of a fleet, the fleet that has no battleships will be beaten by the fleet that has a lot of battleships.
Sentence 96: The fleet that has the submarines is going to beat the fleet without the submarines.
Sentence 97: In the air, the fleet that has planes is going to beat an equal fleet with no planes.
Sentence 98: It is just a question of equality in every weapon of warfare.
Sentence 99: Right?
Sentence 100: It is hard to understand but it is awfully simple. . . .
Sentence 101: Q. Secretary Hull said that Americans are being asked to leave Italy.
Sentence 102: Is there any special reason for that?
Sentence 103: THE PRESIDENT: Not that I know of.
Sentence 104: I told them a long time ago to get out of any place where they might be in danger.
Sentence 105: Q.
Sentence 106: That does not indicate we are expecting Italy to get in?
Sentence 107: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Sentence 108: Q.
Sentence 109: Do you expect this request of yours to prolong the session of Congress?
Sentence 110: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 111: No, I see no special reason why it should.
Sentence 112: As I said to the Vice President and the Speaker and the two Leaders yesterday morning—and I think they all agreed with me—when the Congress has completed the legislation that is before it, the important legislation, there is no particular reason why they should stay in Washington because they have the knowledge, the very definite, certain knowledge, that in case there were need for any legislation of any kind, I would call them back immediately.
Sentence 113: If you will remember, last August there was a certain division of opinion as to whether there would be a world war or not and some of the people, I think Mrs. Rogers, wanted Congress to keep on staying all fall.
Sentence 114: I assured them that, if anything happened and the war broke out, I would call them together again; and I did.
Sentence 115: Of course I would do the same thing if they went home early in June and we had to have them back here on our hands this summer.
Sentence 116: Q. Would you renew your request to have the Leaders stay in town for consultation?
Sentence 117: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 118: Oh, I shall.
Sentence 119: Not in town, but within easy reach.
Sentence 120: I would not keep them from campaigning.
Sentence 121: Q. Mr. President, you said that expenditures would have to be met by taxes or by borrowing.
Sentence 122: Would you make any definite recommendation on increasing the statutory debt limit?
Sentence 123: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 124: No.
Sentence 125: Q. No recommendation?
Sentence 126: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Sentence 127: Q.
Sentence 128: Do you think it is necessary at this session to do that, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 129: I think it is a completely minor detail.
Sentence 130: I hope this money will be appropriated and spent for national defense, and I am not frightfully interested in which way it is met, either by borrowing or by taxes.
Sentence 131: I think it is a minor detail, because the Government has got to spend the money anyway.
Sentence 132: Q.
Sentence 133: It was stated this morning that you had informed the Iowa delegation that you had no intention of running for a third term.
Sentence 134: Have you any comment on that?
Sentence 135: THE PRESIDENT: I don't remember it.
Sentence 136: (Laughter)
