Sentence 1: 1940 Excerpts From The Press Conference 63

Q.
Sentence 2: In the light of recent discussions on the subject, would you care to clarify for us the policy of your Administration toward releasing airplanes and armaments for foreign shipment?
Sentence 3: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 4: Well, the trouble is this.
Sentence 5: It is awfully hard to lay down a hard and fast rule because each case ought properly to be considered on the facts of the immediate case, and in careless writing it is awfully easy if you have one general rule to fail to differentiate between two different cases with different facts.
Sentence 6: However, I shall have a go at it by way of explanation.
Sentence 7: Speaking as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy which, under the Constitution, entails a certain amount of responsibility on my part, a year ago when things seemed to be coming to a head in Europe—I mean seemed to the Administration; some other people didn't agree—we began to look around to see what our national defense problem was.
Sentence 8: We looked at it, of course, primarily from our own point of view, but also in the light of experiences in other nations.
Sentence 9: At that time it seemed to us—this was a full year ago—at that time it seemed pretty clear to us that one of the essentials of national defense, more and more so in the light of modern experience, was productive capacity of airplanes.
Sentence 10: We had seen instances of nations having a pretty good air force with very little or no productive capacity for new planes.
Sentence 11: We had seen other nations with practically no airplanes—I mean relatively—but with potentiality of a large productive capacity.
Sentence 12: And so, looking at it from strictly our own point of view, beginning at that time, we began to ask ourselves two questions: first, how many planes do we need in peacetime?
Sentence 13: How many pilots do we need in peacetime?
Sentence 14: As a result, we felt that we were too low; and we got through Congress appropriations for very definite increases to the Army, Navy and Marine Corps air services, and we began putting in orders.
Sentence 15: But, at the same time, we looked at it from the point of view of production; and we found that American production of military and naval planes was an even more serious problem than our shortage of actual planes in full commission.
Sentence 16: The increased Army and Navy orders of last year, last fall, did help slightly, but only very slightly, to increase our plant capacity.
Sentence 17: The beginning of the war in Europe showed us that we could build up our plant capacity if the Nation—private manufacturers—could sell a large additional number of planes to other nations, not only belligerent nations but other nations, neutral nations; and the orders began coming in.
Sentence 18: So, looking at it from a purely selfish point of view, we did everything we could to develop American productive capacity; and we have been doing it right along with the net result that inside of a year, approximately, we have multiplied American capacity about three times.
Sentence 19: It is an amazing story.
Sentence 20: We have about three times the capacity of engines, and engines really are the neck of the bottle.
Sentence 21: It is harder, for example, to increase the engine capacity than it is your fuselage capacity.
Sentence 22: All that is, from the point of view of the Commander-in-Chief, the most significant thing that has happened in the past year, from the point of view of improving national defense by building up our productive capacity of planes.
Sentence 23: From that as a statement of policy, you come to the obvious next question: How could we have done it unless we had been able to sell planes?
Sentence 24: Well, the answer is that we could not.
Sentence 25: What was the criterion on selling planes?
Sentence 26: Sell them a plane that they would buy.
Sentence 27: There is your answer.
Sentence 28: Now, when you come down to all this "bunk" about secrets: The P-40 —I believe there is some talk about it at the present time—I saw one down here at the Army Field—I think some of you people went down with me—in November, 1938.
Sentence 29: I think some of you saw it there at the time.
Sentence 30: It was almost in the stage of having its drawings, etc., perfected and being put into the point of getting orders for it-a question of a few months longer.
Sentence 31: But we actually saw a P-40 down there that had been flown.
Sentence 32: That was nearly a year and a half ago.
Sentence 33: There is no secret about the P-40.
Sentence 34: As I remarked—"Bunk!"
Now, what is secret?
Sentence 35: There are three or four devices—a plane is not a device—there are three or four devices which we have in the armed forces of the United States which we think other nations have not got.
Sentence 36: They are absolutely secret, to be given to nobody.
Sentence 37: They will be kept secret as long as it is possible for us to keep them secret.
Sentence 38: You ask what they are, and I will tell you frankly it is none of your business; and don't go looking for them, for that is not the part of good Americanism.
Sentence 39: Q. Mr. President, I think nearly everyone is in agreement that the P-40 is safe to release now, but there are two others of the same type that are later models.
Sentence 40: Are you in favor of selling our very latest models?
Sentence 41: THE PRESIDENT: Depends on what you mean by the "very latest model."
Sentence 42: Q.
Sentence 43: I mean like the Airacobra; that is the Bell ship?
Sentence 44: THE PRESIDENT: Anything confidential about it?
Sentence 45: Q. I don't know.
Sentence 46: THE PRESIDENT: Neither do I.
Sentence 47: There was a beautiful engine the other day that everybody called the latest type of engine.
Sentence 48: It has not been put into actual production yet.
Sentence 49: One of the latest issues of an aeronautical magazine has complete drawings of it.
Sentence 50: Does that help you any?
Sentence 51: Q.
Sentence 52: It does not answer my question.
Sentence 53: THE PRESIDENT: In other words, I cannot answer your question because I do not know which particular type it is, whether it is public property or not, whether it has been placed on order by us or not, whether on a small scale or a large scale.
Sentence 54: I would have to have all the facts. . . .
Sentence 55: Q. Mr. President, where you said that this trebling of the capacity was the most amazing and significant thing, do you care to mention any figures per month or per year or not?
Sentence 56: THE PRESIDENT: Didn't Steve
Sentence 57: [Mr. Early] give those out last week?
Sentence 58: Q. Yes, sir.
Sentence 59: THE PRESIDENT: As I remember it, roughly from seven— are these figures right?— from 7,000 to 21,000 or 22,000.
Sentence 60: Q. Senator Barkley gave all those figures in the Senate a week ago.
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 62: Yes, the same figures.
Sentence 63: Q. Do you consider our own national defense policies, our national defense aims, are involved in selling to one or the other of the particular sides in the current controversy in Europe?
Sentence 64: THE PRESIDENT: Consider what?
Q.
Sentence 65: As involving our own national defense aims, in other words?
THE PRESIDENT: I don't understand.
Sentence 66: Q.
Sentence 67: Do you consider it necessary or advisable to sell to one or the other groups in Europe instead of our own national defense?
Sentence 68: THE PRESIDENT: I think we are selling to everybody that comes and gets them at the present time.
Sentence 69: Isn't that the rule? . .
Sentence 70: .
Sentence 71: Q. Getting back to the airplane question once again for a moment: Where you discriminated between devices and planes, that remark would seem to indicate that you do not think there is much likelihood of any secrets being given away as to construction or design of planes.
Sentence 72: Is that correct?
Sentence 73: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 74: Yes—something they couldn't get just as easily by sending somebody over to look at the thing.
Sentence 75: If we did not sell a type of plane as late as the P-40, because I don't know if we have cleared anything else—well, what would you do if you were a Britisher?
Sentence 76: You would send somebody down to take pictures of it and look it all over, which anybody can do.
Sentence 77: There have been pictures in almost every magazine in the United States—design and everything else.
Sentence 78: A lot of aeronautical magazines have had cross-sections of the mechanical parts.
Sentence 79: What would you do if you were a Britisher with that information?
Sentence 80: You would go and build them in Canada, wouldn't you?
Sentence 81: Well, I would rather have them built here.
Sentence 82: Q.
Sentence 83: That illustration you used of a cross-section in a mechanical magazine, is that a later type than the P-40?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 84: The one I saw was the P-40. . . .
Sentence 85: Q. Did you hear Farley's speech Saturday night on tolerance?
Sentence 86: THE PRESIDENT: I read it and thought it was a perfectly grand thing—fine.
Sentence 87: And, by the way, that brings up rather an interesting subject that I am in a sort of quandary about, and I think that most of you will sort of sympathize with me.
Sentence 88: When did we have the last Press Conference—a week ago Friday?
Sentence 89: Well, somebody at that time asked me about an article by Ernest Lindley; in other words, one of his columns.
Sentence 90: [This was an article stating that the President had told one of his visitors that James Farley could not be elected President of the United States because of his religion—Editor.]
Sentence 91: I said I had not read it, which was perfectly true.
Sentence 92: I did read it afterwards.
Sentence 93: Now, here is the predicament; and I would like to have a little help and advice as to what a fellow does about it.
Sentence 94: You know that every day there are all kinds of columns published in the morning papers and afternoon papers.
Sentence 95: The best that can be said is that they run the gamut from the so-called respectable columns, which are, oh, about twenty per cent wrong, something like that—I mean, contain a twenty per cent average of misstatements—down to the other column, which we need not characterize, that runs eighty per cent of misstatements.
Sentence 96: Now, the question is this: I am asked a question in a Press Conference, "Is such and such a thing true in one of these columns?"
Sentence 97: It is either one of the respectable columns or one of the other variety.
Sentence 98: If I once start, you know, interpreting or answering questions about things written in columns, there is no end.
Sentence 99: I could not do it.
Sentence 100: We would have to have a Press Conference every day; and, well, it would be just one continual row between me and the columnists.
Sentence 101: So, I think for seven years I have always declined to comment on statements that were made in columns on the ground that they were not straight news.
Sentence 102: Now, of course, that brings up the question, should I differentiate, should I decline to answer questions about things that are written by the less reputable people, and at the same time answer questions about columns by people like Ernest [Mr. Lindley] and good old Mark Sullivan, et cetera and so on, the four or five so-called respectable columnists?
Sentence 103: (Laugh.
Sentence 104: ter)
Sentence 105: Now, of course, that creates a class, and it is very difficult, so I have to apply the same rule to the so-called respectable columnists.
Sentence 106: Of course, in this case, obviously, those of you who know me—that story of Ernest Lindley was made completely out of whole cloth—obviously.
Sentence 107: But that is not the point.
Sentence 108: Of course I never said such a thing about Jim Farley, and the rest of the story was equally false.
Sentence 109: The point is, though, that after I had said that day that I had not read it—which is perfectly true—and since the next Press Conference was not held-
Sentence 110: I stayed over at the White House-
Sentence 111: I was thereupon accused by some of the columnists—deliberately accused because I had not answered it, of having led people to believe that I had given out that interview to that Senator or Congressman, or whoever it was.
Sentence 112: You see what an awful position that places me in?
Sentence 113: There is a perfectly simple rule that I do not comment on columnists' stories, but it does not seem to make it easy for me when my living up to the rule is used against me.
Sentence 114: Now, the question is, shall we maintain the rule or not?
Sentence 115: It seems to me the only practicable thing is to maintain the rule and not to characterize as being true or untrue stories of that kind that are written by special writers.
Sentence 116: Q. Mr. President, this article was unusual in that it quoted you direct—this Lindley article.
Sentence 117: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 118: As having told something to this undisclosed southern statesman?
Sentence 119: Q. Yes, sir.
Sentence 120: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 121: There you are!
Sentence 122: Heavens, half the columnists in that type of story use direct quotes from me to an undisclosed statesman, southern or otherwise.
Sentence 123: (Laughter)
Sentence 124: It happens all the time.
Sentence 125: Q. How about this daily Press Conference?
Sentence 126: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 127: Well, I do not think it would be bad at all because Kannee would be taking it down and we would get out a real volume after a while.
Sentence 128: I wouldn't mind.
Sentence 129: Q.
Sentence 130: When do they start?
Sentence 131: (Laughter)
Sentence 132: Q.
Sentence 133: May I ask if you are saying that the entire Lindley story was made out of whole cloth and that you did not mention—
THE PRESIDENT: The whole story, because I never talked along that line, in any way, to any distinguished statesman from any point of the compass. . . .
Sentence 134: Q. Mr. President, is any consideration being given to returning an Ambassador to Berlin?
Sentence 135: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Q.
Sentence 136: In that connection, sir, a story would put it rather definitely that you have in mind the name of Clarence E. Pickett to be Ambassador to Germany?
Sentence 137: THE PRESIDENT: I have not heard of it.
