Sentence 1: 1940 Excerpts From The Press Conference 65

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: This has not been put on the mimeograph outside.
Sentence 3: Steve
Sentence 4: [Mr. Early] will do it right off, afterwards.
Sentence 5: I shall read it:
"In the speech of acceptance to the Democratic Convention on July 19, 1940, the President said:
"'I shall not have the time or the inclination to engage in any purely political debate.
Sentence 6: But I shall never be loath to call the attention of the nation to deliberate or unwitting falsifications of fact.'
Sentence 7: "There has been in this campaign, however, a systematic program of falsification of fact by the opposition.
Sentence 8: The President does not believe that it has been an unwitting falsification of fact.
Sentence 9: He believes it is a deliberate falsification of fact.
Sentence 10: "He has, therefore, decided to tell the American people what these misrepresentations have been and in what respect they are false.
Sentence 11: With that purpose in mind, the President will make five speeches between now and election day.
Sentence 12: "
Q. Mr. President, are you ready at this time to give us some indication of what those misrepresentations are?
Sentence 13: THE PRESIDENT: You will have to wait until the five speeches, Pete
Sentence 14: [Mr. Brandt].
Sentence 15: And also, for the benefit of certain people whose ethics are not just like mine, I think you can say that these trips will include, some of them, some inspection work because they happen to be near where we are doing a lot of defense preparation, but the trips will be paid for, of course, obviously, by the Democratic National Committee because they contain political speeches.
Sentence 16: I have just anticipated, perhaps, certain statements that might afterwards come out.
Sentence 17: Q. Mr. President, is there a possibility, sir, that the speech scheduled here for October thirtieth will be shifted over to Baltimore?
Sentence 18: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 19: Yes, there is a possibility that the speech will be shifted over to Baltimore.
Sentence 20: Q.
Sentence 21: That would put you in Baltimore, sir, the same night that Mr. Willkie is speaking there.
Sentence 22: THE PRESIDENT: Does it?
Sentence 23: Good.
Sentence 24: (Laughter) . . .
