Sentence 1: 1940 Radio Address Registration Day

On this day more than sixteen million young Americans are reviving the three-hundred-year-old American custom of the muster.
Sentence 2: They are obeying that first duty of free citizenship by which, from the earliest colonial times, every able-bodied citizen was subject to the call for service in the national defense.
Sentence 3: It is a day of deep and purposeful meaning in the lives of all of us.
Sentence 4: For on this day we Americans proclaim the vitality of our history, the singleness of our will and the unity of our nation.
Sentence 5: We prepare to keep the peace in this New World which free men have built for free men to live in.
Sentence 6: The United States, a nation of one hundred and thirty million people, has today only about five hundred thousand—half a million officers and men in Army and National Guard.
Sentence 7: Other nations, smaller in population, have four and five and six million trained men in their armies.
Sentence 8: Our present program will train eight hundred thousand additional men this coming year and somewhat less than one million men each year thereafter.
Sentence 9: It is a program obviously of defensive preparation and of defensive preparation only.
Sentence 10: Calmly, without fear and without hysteria, but with clear determination, we are building guns and planes and tanks and ships—and all the other tools which modern defense requires.
Sentence 11: We are mobilizing our citizenship, for we are calling on men and women and property and money to join in making our defense effective.
Sentence 12: Today's registration for training and service is the keystone in the arch of our national defense.
Sentence 13: In the days when our forefathers laid the foundation of our democracy, every American family had to have its gun and know how to use it.
Sentence 14: Today we live under threats, threats of aggression from abroad, which call again for the same readiness, the same vigilance.
Sentence 15: Ours must once again be the spirit of those who were prepared to defend as they built, to defend as they worked, to defend as they worshipped.
Sentence 16: The duty of this day has been imposed upon us from without.
Sentence 17: Those who have dared to threaten the whole world with war-those who have created the name and deed of total war—have imposed upon us and upon all free peoples the necessity of preparation for total defense.
Sentence 18: But this day not only imposes a duty; it provides also an opportunity-an opportunity for united action in the cause of liberty-an opportunity for the continuing creation on this continent of a country where the people alone shall be master, where the people shall be truly free.
Sentence 19: To the sixteen million young men who register today, I say that democracy is your cause—the cause of youth.
Sentence 20: Democracy is the one form of society which guarantees to every new generation of men the right to imagine and to attempt to bring to pass a better world.
Sentence 21: Under the despotisms the imagination of a better world and its achievement are alike forbidden.
Sentence 22: Your act today affirms not only your loyalty to your country, but your will to build your future for yourselves.
Sentence 23: We of today, with God's help, can bequeath to Americans of tomorrow a nation in which the ways of liberty and justice will survive and be secure.
Sentence 24: Such a nation must be devoted to the cause of peace.
Sentence 25: And it is for that cause that America arms itself.
Sentence 26: It is to that cause—the cause of peace—that we Americans today devote our national will and our national spirit and our national strength.
