Sentence 1: 1940 Fireside Chat 10

My friends:
At this moment of sadness throughout most of the world, I want to talk with you about a number of subjects that directly affect the future of the United States.
Sentence 2: We are shocked by the almost incredible eyewitness stories that come to us of what is happening at this moment to the civilian populations of Norway and Holland and Belgium and Luxembourg and France.
Sentence 3: I think it is right on this Sabbath evening that I should say a word in behalf of women and children and old men who need help-immediate help in their present distress—help from us across the seas, from us who are still free to give it.
Sentence 4: Tonight over the once peaceful roads of Belgium and France millions are now moving, running from their homes to escape bombs and shells and fire and machine gunning, without shelter, and almost wholly without food.
Sentence 5: They stumble on, knowing not where the end of the road will be.
Sentence 6: I speak to you of these people because each one of you listening to me tonight has a way of helping them.
Sentence 7: The American Red Cross, that represents each of us, is rushing food, clothing and medical supplies to these destitute civilian millions.
Sentence 8: Please—I beg you—please give according to your means to your nearest Red Cross chapter, give as generously as you can.
Sentence 9: I ask this in the name of our common humanity.
Sentence 10: Let us sit down together again, you and I, to consider our own pressing problems that confront us.
Sentence 11: There are many among us who in the past closed their eyes to events abroad-because they believed in utter good faith what some of their fellow Americans told them—that what was taking place in Europe was none of our business; that no matter what happened over there, the United States could always pursue its peaceful and unique course in the world.
Sentence 12: There are many among us who closed their eyes, from lack of interest or lack of knowledge; honestly and sincerely thinking that the many hundreds of miles of salt water made the American Hemisphere so remote that the people of North and Central and South America could go on living in the midst of their vast resources without reference to, or danger from, other continents of the world.
Sentence 13: There are some among us who were persuaded by minority groups that we could maintain our physical safety by retiring within our continental boundaries—the Atlantic on the east, the Pacific on the west, Canada on the north, and Mexico on the south.
Sentence 14: I illustrated the futility—the impossibility—of that idea in my message to the Congress last week.
Sentence 15: Obviously, a defense policy based on that is merely to invite future attack.
Sentence 16: And, finally, there are a few among us who have deliberately and consciously closed their eyes because they were determined to be opposed to their government, its foreign policy and every other policy, to be partisan, and to believe that anything that the Government did was wholly wrong.
Sentence 17: To those who have closed their eyes for any of these many reasons, to those who would not admit the possibility of the approaching storm—to all of them the past two weeks have meant the shattering of many illusions.
Sentence 18: They have lost the illusion that we are remote and isolated and, therefore, secure against the dangers from which no other land is free.
Sentence 19: In some quarters, with this rude awakening has come fear, bordering on panic.
Sentence 20: It is said that we are defenseless.
Sentence 21: It is whispered by some that only by abandoning our freedom, our ideals, our way of life, can we build our defenses adequately, can we match the strength of the aggressors.
Sentence 22: I did not share those illusions.
Sentence 23: I do not share these fears.
Sentence 24: Today we are now more realistic.
Sentence 25: But let us not be calamity howlers and discount our strength.
Sentence 26: Let us have done with both fears and illusions.
Sentence 27: On this Sabbath evening, in our homes in the midst of our American families, let us calmly consider what we have done and what we must do.
Sentence 28: In the past two or three weeks all kinds of stories have been handed out to the American public about our lack of preparedness.
Sentence 29: It has even been charged that the money we have spent on our military and naval forces during the last few years has gone · down the rat-hole.
Sentence 30: I think it is a matter of fairness to the nation that you hear the facts.
Sentence 31: We have spent large sums of money on the national defense.
Sentence 32: This money has been used to make our Army and Navy today the largest, the best equipped, and the best trained peace-time military establishment in the whole history of this country.
Sentence 33: Let me tell you just a few of the many things accomplished during the past few years.
Sentence 34: I do not propose to go into every detail.
Sentence 35: It is a known fact, however, that in 1933, when this Administration came into office, the United States Navy had fallen in standing among the navies of the world, in power of ships and in efficiency, to a relatively low ebb.
Sentence 36: The relative fighting power of the Navy had been greatly diminished by failure to replace ships and equipment, which had become out-of-date.
Sentence 37: But between 1933 and this year, 1940—seven fiscal years-your Government will have spent one billion four hundred eighty-seven million dollars more than it spent on the Navy during the seven years that preceded 1933.
Sentence 38: What did we get for this money?
Sentence 39: The fighting personnel of the Navy rose from 79,000 to 145,000.
Sentence 40: During this period 215 ships for the fighting fleet have been laid down or commissioned, practically seven times the number in the preceding seven-year period.
Sentence 41: Of these 215 ships we have commissioned 12 cruisers; 63 destroyers; 26 submarines; 3 aircraft carriers; 2 gunboats; 7 auxiliaries and many smaller craft.
Sentence 42: Among the many ships now being built and paid for as we build them are 8 new battleships.
Sentence 43: Ship construction costs millions of dollars—more in the United States than anywhere else in the world; but it is a fact that we cannot have adequate naval defense for all American waters without ships—ships that sail the surface of the ocean, ships that move under the surface and ships that move through the air.
Sentence 44: And, speaking of airplanes that work with the Navy, in 1933 we had 1,127 useful aircraft and today we have 2,892 on hand and on order.
Sentence 45: Nearly all of the old planes of 1933 have been replaced by new planes because they became obsolete or worn out.
Sentence 46: The Navy is far stronger today than at any peace-time period in the whole long history of the Nation.
Sentence 47: In hitting power and in efficiency, I would even make the assertion that it is stronger today than it was during the World War.
Sentence 48: The Army of the United States in 1933 consisted of 122,000 enlisted men.
Sentence 49: Now, in 1940, that number has been practically doubled.
Sentence 50: The Army of 1933 had been given few new implements of war since 1919, and had been compelled to draw on old reserve stocks left over from the World War.
Sentence 51: The net result of all this was that our Army by 1933 had very greatly declined in its ratio of strength with the armies of Europe and of the Far East.
Sentence 52: That was the situation I found.
Sentence 53: But, since then, great changes have taken place.
Sentence 54: Between 1933 and 1940—these past seven fiscal years—your Government will have spent $1,292,000,000 more than it spent on the Army the previous seven years.
Sentence 55: What did we get for this money?
Sentence 56: The personnel of the Army, as I have said, has been almost doubled.
Sentence 57: By the end of this year every existing unit of the present regular Army will be equipped with its complete requirements of modern weapons.
Sentence 58: Existing units of the National Guard will also be largely equipped with similar items.
Sentence 59: Here are some striking examples taken from a large number:
Sentence 60: Since 1933, we have actually purchased 5,640 airplanes, including the most modern type of long-range bombers and fast pursuit planes, though, of course, many of these which were delivered four, five, six or seven years ago have worn out through use and been scrapped.
Sentence 61: These planes cost money—a lot of it.
Sentence 62: For example, one modern four-engine long-range bombing plane costs $350,000; one modern interceptor pursuit plane costs $133,000; one medium bomber costs $160,000.
Sentence 63: In 1933 we had only 355 anti-aircraft guns.
Sentence 64: We now have more than 1,700 modern anti-aircraft guns of all types on hand or on order.
Sentence 65: And you ought to know that a three-inch anti-aircraft gun costs $40,000 without the fire control equipment that goes with it.
Sentence 66: In 1933 there were only 24 modern infantry mortars in the entire Army.
Sentence 67: We now have on hand and on order more than 1,600.
Sentence 68: In 1933 we had only 48 modern tanks and armored cars; today we have on hand and on order 1,700.
Sentence 69: Each one of our heavier tanks costs $46,000.
Sentence 70: There are many other items in which our progress since 1933 has been rapid.
Sentence 71: And the great proportion of this advance consists of really modern equipment.
Sentence 72: In 1933, on the personnel side we had 1,263 Army pilots.
Sentence 73: Today the Army alone has more than 3,000 of the best fighting fliers in the world, who last year flew more than one million hours in combat training.
Sentence 74: That figure does not include the hundreds of splendid pilots in the National Guard and in the organized reserves.
Sentence 75: Within the past year the productive .capacity of the aviation industry to produce military planes has been tremendously increased.
Sentence 76: In the past year the capacity more than doubled, but that capacity is still inadequate.
Sentence 77: However, the Government, working with industry, is determined to increase that capacity to meet our needs.
Sentence 78: We intend to harness the efficient machinery of these manufacturers to the Government's program of being able to get 50,000 planes a year.
Sentence 79: One additional word about aircraft, about which we read so much.
Sentence 80: Recent wars, including the current war in Europe, have demonstrated beyond doubt that fighting efficiency depends on unity of command, unity of control.
Sentence 81: In sea operations the airplane is just as much an integral part of the unity of operations as the submarine, the destroyer and the battleship; and in land warfare the airplane is just as much a part of military operations as are the tank corps, the engineers, the artillery or the infantry itself.
Sentence 82: Therefore, the air forces should continue to be part of the Army and Navy.
Sentence 83: In line with my request the Congress, this week, is voting the largest appropriation ever asked by the Army or the Navy in peace-time; and the equipment and training provided for them will be in addition to the figures I have given you.
Sentence 84: The world situation may so change that it will be necessary to reappraise our program at any time.
Sentence 85: In such case I am confident that the Congress and the Chief Executive will work in harmony as a team as they are doing today.
Sentence 86: I will not hesitate at any moment to ask for additional funds when they are required.
Sentence 87: In this era of swift, mechanized warfare, we all have to remember that what is modern today and up-to-date, what is efficient and practical, becomes obsolete and outworn tomorrow.
Sentence 88: Even while the production line turns out airplanes, new airplanes are being designed on the drafting table.
Sentence 89: Even as a cruiser slides down the launching ways, plans for improvement, plans for increased efficiency in the next model, are taking shape in the blue-prints of designers.
Sentence 90: Every day's fighting in Europe, on land, on sea, and in the air, discloses constant changes in methods of warfare.
Sentence 91: We are constantly improving and redesigning, testing new weapons, learning the lessons of the immediate war, and seeking to produce in accordance with the latest that the brains of science can conceive.
Sentence 92: We are calling upon the resources, the efficiency and the ingenuity of the American manufacturers of war material of all kinds-airplanes, tanks, guns, ships, and all the hundreds of products that go into this materiel.
Sentence 93: The Government of the United States itself manufactures few of the implements of war.
Sentence 94: Private industry will continue to be the source of most of this materiel; and private industry will have to be speeded up to produce it at the rate and efficiency called for by the needs of the times.
Sentence 95: I know that private business cannot be expected to make all of the capital investment required for expansions of plants and factories and personnel which this program calls for at once.
Sentence 96: It would be unfair to expect industrial corporations or their investors to do this, when there is a chance that a change in international affairs may stop or curtail future orders a year or two hence.
Sentence 97: Therefore, the Government of the United States stands ready to advance the necessary money to help provide for the enlargement of factories, the establishment of new plants, the employment of thousands of necessary workers, the development of new sources of supply for the hundreds of raw materials required, the development of quick mass transportation of supplies.
Sentence 98: The details of all of this are now being worked out in Washington, day and night.
Sentence 99: We are calling on men now engaged in private industry to help us in carrying out this program, and you will hear more of this in detail in the next few days.
Sentence 100: This does not mean that the men we call upon will be engaged in the actual production of this materiel.
Sentence 101: That will still have to be carried on in the plants and factories throughout the land.
Sentence 102: Private industry will have the responsibility of providing the best, speediest and most efficient mass production of which it is capable.
Sentence 103: The functions of the business men whose assistance we are calling upon will be to coordinate this program-to see to it that all of the plants continue to operate at maximum speed and efficiency.
Sentence 104: Patriotic Americans of proven merit and of unquestioned ability in their special fields are coming to Washington to help the Government with their training, their experience and their capability.
Sentence 105: It is our purpose not only to speed up production but to increase the total facilities of the nation in such a way that they can be further enlarged to meet emergencies of the future.
Sentence 106: But as this program proceeds there are several things we must continue to watch and safeguard, things which are just as important to the sound defense of a nation as physical armament itself.
Sentence 107: While our Navy and our airplanes and our guns and our ships may be our first lines of defense, it is still clear that way down at the bottom, underlying them all, giving them their strength, sustenance and power, are the spirit and morale of a free people.
Sentence 108: For that reason, we must make sure, in all that we do, that there be no breakdown or cancellation of any of the great social gains we have made in these past years.
Sentence 109: We have carried on an offensive on a broad front against social and economic inequalities and abuses which had made our society weak.
Sentence 110: That offensive should not now be broken down by the pincers movement of those who would use the present needs of physical military defense to destroy it.
Sentence 111: There is nothing in our present emergency to justify making the workers of our nation toil for longer hours than now limited by statute.
Sentence 112: As more orders come in and as more work has to be done, tens of thousands of people, who are now unemployed, will receive employment.
Sentence 113: There is nothing in our present emergency to justify a lowering of the standards of employment.
Sentence 114: Minimum wages should not be reduced.
Sentence 115: It is my hope, indeed, that the new speed-up of production will cause many businesses which now pay below the minimum standards to bring their wages up.
Sentence 116: There is nothing in our present emergency to justify a breaking down of old age pensions or of unemployment insurance.
Sentence 117: I would rather see the systems extended to other groups who do not now enjoy them.
Sentence 118: There is nothing in our present emergency to justify a retreat from any of our social objectives—from conservation of natural resources, assistance to agriculture, housing, and help to the under-privileged.
Sentence 119: Conversely, however, I am sure that responsible leaders will not permit some specialized group, which represents a minority of the total employees of a plant or an industry, to break up the continuity of employment of the majority of the employees.
Sentence 120: Let us remember that the policy and the laws that provide for collective bargaining are still in force.
Sentence 121: I can assure you that labor will be adequately represented in Washington in the carrying out of this program of defense.
Sentence 122: Also, our present emergency and a common sense of decency make it imperative that no new group of war millionaires shall come into being in this nation as a result of the struggles abroad.
Sentence 123: The American people will not relish the idea of any American citizen growing rich and fat in an emergency of blood and slaughter and human suffering.
Sentence 124: And, last of all, this emergency demands that the consumers of America be protected so that our general cost of living can be maintained at a reasonable level.
Sentence 125: We ought to avoid the spiral processes of the World War, the rising spiral of costs of all kinds.
Sentence 126: The soundest policy is for every employer in the country to help give useful employment to the millions who are unemployed.
Sentence 127: By giving to those millions an increased purchasing power, the prosperity of the whole nation will rise to a much higher level.
Sentence 128: Today's threat to our national security is not a matter of military weapons alone.
Sentence 129: We know of new methods of attack.
Sentence 130: The Trojan Horse.
Sentence 131: The Fifth Column that betrays a nation unprepared for treachery.
Sentence 132: Spies, saboteurs and traitors are the actors in this new strategy.
Sentence 133: With all of these we must and will deal vigorously.
Sentence 134: But there is an added technique for weakening a nation at its very roots, for disrupting the entire pattern of life of a people.
Sentence 135: It is important that we understand it.
Sentence 136: The method is simple.
Sentence 137: It is, first, a dissemination of discord.
Sentence 138: A group—not too large- a group that may be sectional or racial or political—is encouraged to exploit its prejudices through false slogans and emotional appeals.
Sentence 139: The aim of those who deliberately egg on these groups is to create confusion of counsel, public indecision, political paralysis and, eventually, a state of panic.
Sentence 140: Sound national policies come to be viewed with a new and unreasoning skepticism, not through the wholesome political debates of honest and free men, but through the clever schemes of foreign agents.
Sentence 141: As a result of these new techniques, armament programs may be dangerously delayed.
Sentence 142: Singleness of national purpose may be undermined.
Sentence 143: Men can lose confidence in each other, and therefore lose confidence in the efficacy of their own united action.
Sentence 144: Faith and courage can yield to doubt and fear.
Sentence 145: The unity of the State can be so sapped that its strength is destroyed.
Sentence 146: All this is no idle dream.
Sentence 147: It has happened time after time, in nation after nation, during the last two years.
Sentence 148: Fortunately, American men and women are not easy dupes.
Sentence 149: Campaigns of group hatred or class struggle have never made much headway among us, and are not making headway now.
Sentence 150: But new forces are being unleashed, deliberately planned propagandas to divide and weaken us in the face of danger as other nations have been weakened before.
Sentence 151: These dividing forces are undiluted poison.
Sentence 152: They must not be allowed to spread in the New World as they have in the Old.
Sentence 153: Our morale and our mental defenses must be raised as never before against those who would cast a smoke screen across our vision.
Sentence 154: The development of our defense program makes it essential that each and every one of us, men and women, feel that we have some contribution to make toward the security of our nation.
Sentence 155: At this time, when the world—and the world includes our own American Hemisphere—is threatened by forces of destruction, it is my resolve and yours to build up our armed defenses.
Sentence 156: We shall build them to whatever heights the future may require.
Sentence 157: We shall rebuild them swiftly, as the methods of warfare swiftly change.
Sentence 158: For more than three centuries we Americans have been building on this continent a free society, a society in which the promise of the human spirit may find fulfillment.
Sentence 159: Commingled here are the blood and genius of all the peoples of the world who have sought this promise.
Sentence 160: We have built well.
Sentence 161: We are continuing our efforts to bring the blessings of a free society, of a free and productive economic system, to every family in the land.
Sentence 162: This is the promise of America.
Sentence 163: It is this that we must continue to build—this that we must continue to defend.
Sentence 164: It is the task of our generation, yours and mine.
Sentence 165: But we build and defend not for our generation alone.
Sentence 166: We defend the foundations laid down by our fathers.
Sentence 167: We build a life for generations yet unborn.
Sentence 168: We defend and we build a way of life, not for America alone, but for all mankind.
Sentence 169: Ours is a high duty, a noble task.
Sentence 170: Day and night I pray for the restoration of peace in this mad world of ours.
Sentence 171: It is not necessary that I, the President, ask the American people to pray in behalf of such a cause—for I know you are praying with me.
Sentence 172: I am certain that out of the heart of every man, woman and child in this land, in every waking minute, a supplication goes up to Almighty God; that all of us beg that suffering and starving, that death and destruction may end—and that peace may return to the world.
Sentence 173: In common affection for all mankind, your prayers join with mine—that God will heal the wounds and the hearts of humanity.
