Sentence 1: 1941 Excerpts From The Press Conference 75

Q. Mr. President, we were told at the State Department that you had asked Mr. Welles to make certain inquiries of Japanese representatives
THE PRESIDENT: (interjecting) That is correct.
Sentence 2: Q. (continuing)—or the Japanese Government, through their representatives, this morning.
Sentence 3: THE PRESIDENT: (interjecting) Yes.
Sentence 4: Q. (continuing) Is there any indication of the nature of those inquiries?
Sentence 5: THE PRESIDENT: Let me put it this way, that
MR. CHARLES HAMILTON: (interposing) Mr. President-
VOICES:
Sentence 6: Sh—Sh.
Sentence 7: THE PRESIDENT: Ask Charlie
MR. CHARLES HAMILTON: (interposing) Never since Mr. Theodore Roosevelt have we needed a big stick as much as we do today, so I am giving this to you.
Sentence 8: (Hands a big ash cane to the President)
THE PRESIDENT: I think, by Jove—
MR. CHARLES HAMILTON: (interposing) I got it in Wales.
Sentence 9: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 10: Charlie, thanks ever so much.
Sentence 11: That's one thing I have longed for.
Sentence 12: (Laughter)
Sentence 13: That's all right.
Sentence 14: That's a good hefty one.
Sentence 15: (Holding it up to the reporters)
Sentence 16: You know, it has got an awfully nice balance ....
Sentence 17: Q. Mr. President, you started out to say, "Let me put it this way."
Sentence 18: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT: What was it we were talking about?
Sentence 19: Was it the—something before Congress, was it?
Sentence 20: Q. No.
Q.
Sentence 21: The nature of the inquiries made of Japan.
Sentence 22: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 23: Well, let me put it this way.
Sentence 24: And this answers a good many questions at the same time.
Sentence 25: I'll try to make this as short as I can.
Sentence 26: As you know, since last April, we have been discussing with the Japanese Government some method to arrive at an objective.
Sentence 27: The objective was permanent peace in the whole area of the Pacific.
Sentence 28: It seemed at times as if progress were being made toward that objective.
Sentence 29: And during that whole period, up to I think it was the end of June, we assumed that as both Nations were negotiating toward that objective, that there would be no act which would be contrary to the desired end of peace.
Sentence 30: We were therefore somewhat surprised, the end of June, when the Japanese Government sent troops—I think to a specified over-all total, in other words, a number which would not be exceeded- into Indo-China, after very brief negotiations with the French Vichy Government; at the conclusion of this arrangement the Vichy Government let it be understood rather clearly that they had agreed to this number of troops, principally because they were powerless to do anything else.
Sentence 31: Sometime thereafter, after the troops had gone there, the conversations were resumed between Japan and the United States, and for a while they seemed to be making progress.
Sentence 32: But again we made it perfectly clear that the objective which we were seeking meant the taking of no additional territory by anybody in the Pacific area.
Sentence 33: And the other day we got word from various sources that already, in Indo-China, there were large additional bodies of Japanese forces- various kinds of forces- naval, air, and land—and that other forces were on the way; and that even before these other forces had arrived, the number of forces already there had greatly exceeded, in Indo-China, the original amount which the French Government had agreed to, and that the forces that were on the way would still more greatly exceed the original number.
Sentence 34: And the question was asked this morning of the Japanese Government, at my request, very politely, as to what the purpose of this was—what the intention of the Japanese Government in doing this was, as to the future; and eliminating, of course, the possibility that it was for the policing of Indo-China, which was an exceedingly peaceful spot beforehand.
Sentence 35: And we hope to get a reply to that very simple question shortly.
Sentence 36: Q. Was there any time limit put on it?
Sentence 37: THE PRESIDENT: No, no.
Sentence 38: That's a silly question.
Sentence 39: One doesn't put a time limit on things any more.
Sentence 40: That's the last century.
Sentence 41: We are at peace with Japan.
Sentence 42: We are asking a perfectly polite question.
Sentence 43: I think that's all .....
