Sentence 1: 1941 Excerpts From The Press Conference 68

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I don't think there is much news that you haven't already got.
Sentence 3: You saw Averell Harriman when he went out.
Sentence 4: That is a thing that has been in the process of discussion for a month or six weeks.
Sentence 5: When Harry Hopkins came back, what we thought probably would be a need has rather definitely become a need; so Averell Harriman is going over in about ten days.
Sentence 6: As soon as the defense program under the lend-spend, lend-lease—whatever you call it—bill is perfected more or less, he will go over and—Oh, I suppose you will all ask about his title, so I thought I would invent one.
Sentence 7: I talked over with him what his title would be, and we decided it was a pretty good idea to call him an "Expediter."
Sentence 8: There's a new one for you.
Sentence 9: I believe it is not in the diplomatic list or any other list.
Sentence 10: So he will go over as "Defense Expediter.
Sentence 11: "
That doesn't conform with anything you ever heard of before—but that doesn't mean it isn't an excellent idea.
Sentence 12: We won't send his name to the Senate—it won't be that kind of job; and that is neither here nor there.
Sentence 13: He will be Defense Expediter, and he is going in about two weeks.
Sentence 14: Q. Is this a permanent proposition?
Sentence 15: THE PRESIDENT: No; we talked it over and both agreed that he probably ought to come back here at the end of, say, three months or four months to take what they call in industry a "refresher course" to find out what has happened over here and bring himself up to date in regard to the American production program, and then go on back.
Sentence 16: Q.
Sentence 17: He anticipates there will be contracts, understandings, and agreements, and so forth under the lease-lend?
Sentence 18: THE PRESIDENT: Most of that contract work will be ours over here.
Sentence 19: Q. I mean somebody has to keep the records to find what they are getting.
Sentence 20: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 21: Yes; and another thing that Hopkins took up was the matter of priorities.
Sentence 22: I had a very interesting talk this morning, just to give you a new slant on priorities, with Anne O'Hare McCormick, and she said, "In working out priorities, can you list them as l, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6?"
Sentence 23: I said, "No, that is exactly the point; there may be half a dozen different things, different articles, which would all be in the Priority 1 group; now if you list them— say there are 6 of them—as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, the general impression of the public is that No. 1 is more important than No. 6; so what you ought to do is to list all 6 under the figure 1.
Sentence 24: In other words, they may all be equally important.
Sentence 25: "I think that is something just for your own guidance; that should be explained in writing stories that there is no such thing as saying one particular article is Priority 1.
Sentence 26: There may be half a dozen that are Priority 1.
Sentence 27: Q. Has the lease-lend got to such a point, or have you discussed it, where we send them a thousand units of X and there is an understanding that we get back a thousand units of Y?
Sentence 28: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Sentence 29: In other words, Pete [Brandt], I can tell you exactly what happened yesterday or day before, when I was talking about this thing.
Sentence 30: We may take time by the forelock, because we want to be ready to shoot just as soon as we are given the green light by Congress.
Sentence 31: Let me put it this way:
We have, let us say, a column showing what we have on order at the present time for our own Army and Navy; it is very simple to work that up to a boiled-down program so as to get hundreds of pages of orders onto one sheet or one column, and that is divided up into deliveries- expected deliveries; in other words, what they call a "flow sheet."
Sentence 32: Column 1 will be '41, column 2 will be '42 calendar year, for put-off deliveries, stuff we have already ordered.
Sentence 33: Then comes another double column, what the British have already ordered, divided between a 1941 and '42.
Sentence 34: That is very easy to get.
Sentence 35: Then comes a third double column, what we are expecting to order; in other words, the stuff that will be all for our immediate Army and Navy out of the new bills that are up on the Hill today, or will be shortly—deficiency bills, supplementary estimates, and the annual Army and Navy Appropriation Bills for the fiscal year 1942.
Sentence 36: You see there are three different kinds up there for us.
Sentence 37: That will be divided into those double columns of 1941 and 1942.
Sentence 38: Then you get a fourth category, which is the list the British give us of things that they need which are not on order, and that is the column that the lend-lease bill is about.
Sentence 39: That will be divided between 1941 delivery and 1942 delivery.
Sentence 40: Then on the right-hand side of the page you have got a sum total of all of these things which are on order or we expect or hope to place on order this spring.
Sentence 41: Then of course you come to a question of working in-dovetailing—the priorities between all these different types of things—four different types: On order by us and the British, and to be ordered by us and the British.
Sentence 42: That is what they are working on so as to get an over-all picture of the whole scheme, looking as far ahead as we can.
Sentence 43: Q.
Sentence 44: Might there be transfers from one column to another?
Sentence 45: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 46: Yes, a small amount of transfers.
Sentence 47: Q. Haven't the British already started making their list in anticipation?
Sentence 48: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 49: Yes, coming along very well.
Sentence 50: Q. Mr. President, where is the column showing the stuff we can spare?
THE PRESIDENT: There is some transfer in this, a relatively small percentage; for instance, it is in the bill as it passed the House, from the money point of view—what was it?—a billion-three, out of former appropriations.
Sentence 51: Q. Mr. President, what is Mr. Harriman's relation to our Embassy over there?
Sentence 52: Does he represent you directly?
Sentence 53: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know, and I don't care.
Sentence 54: (Laughter)
Sentence 55: Q. Mr. President, how does he report?
Sentence 56: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know, and I don't care.
Sentence 57: Q. Is it part of the Office of Production Management?
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT: I suppose he will report to the proper authorities.
Sentence 59: Q.
Sentence 60: That means you. . .
Sentence 61: .
Sentence 62: Q. Mr. President, did you have an opportunity to examine an open letter in the Cleveland Plain Dealer (February 15, 1941) about what men past draft age can do?
Sentence 63: THE PRESIDENT: I did; and I thought it was a very interesting story.
Sentence 64: I have got it right here.
Sentence 65: It is by a former marine who is past draft age.
Sentence 66: This is an open letter, of which the general tenor is—well, there are three things in it, really.
Sentence 67: It starts off: "A good many times when we were lying around in the mud in 1918 —"
meaning over in France
"—we said, somewhat bitterly: 'When the next war comes along we'll go down to the corner and cheer.
Sentence 68: We'll take off our hats and salute the boys who are marching away.
Sentence 69: And then we'll dive into the nearest restaurant and order a big steak.
Sentence 70: With onions.'
Sentence 71: "
Then he goes on and he says (the President paraphrasing) the other night a lot of draftees were marching away, and they watched and they cheered and then they went into the nearest restaurant and ordered a big steak, with onions—a fine steak, but it had no taste; so apparently, it won't work.
Sentence 72: When one's country is facing an uncertain future, one cannot fail to be concerned—which brings us to the point.
Sentence 73: "What we want to know," he says, "is this: What is our part in the current job?
Sentence 74: What can we do?"
In other words, there are the older fellows, who want to do something and do not quite know what they should do.
Sentence 75: And that is one of the things that we have been giving a lot of thought to.
Sentence 76: Quite a lot of people are working on the problem, men and women who want to do something back home, too old to go to the front, Army or Navy.
Sentence 77: What can they do?
Sentence 78: They want to do something.
Sentence 79: Of course, really, there are two answers; and I suppose, to use a very much overworked word, the word "priority" applies to people as well as it does to machines and tools, people who are doing any kind of useful work in their own community, performing service.
Sentence 80: I got a letter the other day from a driver of a school bus up in Dutchess County, 52 years old, who wanted to do something.
Sentence 81: Well, he is taking kiddies to school every morning and taking them back every night.
Sentence 82: Somebody has to do it, and he is performing useful service at the present time, probably as useful as is possible for that fellow to do.
Sentence 83: He ought to be satisfied.
Sentence 84: He is really doing something.
Sentence 85: And the fellow who is running an automobile garage does a lot—another friend of mine up there.
Sentence 86: He wants to do something.
Sentence 87: He is performing a useful service to his community.
Sentence 88: He repairs automobiles and rills them with gas at the present time. . . .
Sentence 89: I take it this marine has some regular, steady job that is a useful job in his community, and he is doing it today.
Sentence 90: Now, as time goes on, it may be necessary for us to—how shall I put it?—do a lot of picking and choosing of some of these people, because they may be needed in other things connected with defense.
Sentence 91: We might have to increase the defense personnel; but as far as we can tell at the present time the increase in the total on immediate operations of defense is growing in a normal way.
Sentence 92: At the same time in these communities there are a lot more things that can be done, and that is what we are studying.
Sentence 93: We are studying better health of the communities, better physical education of boys and girls and middle-aged people.
Sentence 94: You remember a few weeks ago I accused you all of being physically soft; you are still.
Sentence 95: We may put in some kind of Swedish exercises out on the front lawn in front of the Executive Offices, and I will lead you- from a chair.
Sentence 96: (Laughter)
There are lots of things that can be done through local cooperation, and I think what we call the home defense thing is coming along pretty well.
Sentence 97: We will have some kind of a plan within a week or two—I keep putting it off—that will indicate from a central point what might be called ideal programs, leaving it to the communities—in other words, decentralization—as to how best to carry them out in communities and States.
Sentence 98: They are not ready for anything on it yet.
Sentence 99: I haven't got down to it yet, but I will pretty soon.
Sentence 100: Q. Mr. President, the destroyer program is running ahead of schedule; is there anything you can tell us on that, in general terms?
Sentence 101: THE PRESIDENT: I would say, of course- look, here's the thing: it's awfully hard to explain in a story, but you set out a goal for a year, or two years, ahead; what is it?
Sentence 102: It's an estimate; it may be a good estimate or it may be a bad estimate.
Sentence 103: In the case of plane production, about—what?—a month and a half ago, Mr. Knudsen said he was not satisfied, that he was 30 percent behind his guess that he had made.
Sentence 104: He couldn't tell you whether his guess was right, or whether it was too high or too low.
Sentence 105: In the case of destroyers, the Navy Department made a guess as to how long it would take to turn them out; and that was back-
Sentence 106: oh, what?— about the first of November.
Sentence 107: I read their guess
Sentence 108: and I said, "I know enough myself, just as a layman, to know that your guess is silly—turning out destroyers in 24 to 30 months; in the World War, I turned out destroyers in 10 months."
Sentence 109: So they revised their estimate; they have nearly cut it in half.
Sentence 110: Now I don't know whether they are going to live up to that new estimate or not, but the construction of destroyers is speeding up very materially.
Sentence 111: As I said once before, I don't know whether it is going fast enough yet; if it goes fast and you are tickled to death, the next thing you do is to make it go still faster. . . .
