Sentence 1: 1941 Excerpts From The Press Conference 71

THE PRESIDENT: I have a lot of things for you today, for a change.
Sentence 2: Charity begins at home.
Sentence 3: This morning Mr. Crim, Head Usher of the White House, came to me and said that he had been rummaging around in the basement, and had turned up about half a ton of copper and brass waste.
Sentence 4: Now, if that happens in the White House, isn't it reasonable to assume that an awful lot of Government-owned metal, which is not only usable but extremely useful, is lying around all through Washington, and in other Government buildings, and other parts of the country?
Sentence 5: This particular metal happened to be some valves and joints, and things like that, that were put aside many years ago, with the idea that they might possibly be used.
Sentence 6: They are out of date, and they are going to be sent down to the Navy Yard to be melted up.
Sentence 7: And I am asking Mr. Peters, the Building Superintendent for the District, to go around and make a search, and see what else he can dig up in the way of metals like copper and brass, things we are short of, and deliver them to the nearest point where they can be melted up for Government use.
Sentence 8: And one building in which you can dig up a half a ton—a thousand pounds—is pretty good.
Sentence 9: And we hope to do our own housecleaning, so that we can't be charged with not being thorough.
Sentence 10: Q. Sounds like Calvin Coolidge.
Sentence 11: THE PRESIDENT: Sounds just like President Coolidge all right.(Laughter)
Sentence 12: Q. Do you plan to melt up any brass hats?
Sentence 13: (Loud laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 14: Well, we are doing that now, and we have a much politer term for it.
Sentence 15: We call it "liquidating."
Sentence 16: (Laughter)
Sentence 17: Essentially the same thing. . .
Sentence 18: .
Sentence 19: Q.
Sentence 20: I want to ask about aluminum, when the time comes, sir.
Sentence 21: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 22: Yes.
Sentence 23: What about aluminum?
Sentence 24: Q. There have been criticisms that the aluminum campaign was a fake, or a phony, that it was not necessary—in very bald language.
Sentence 25: Do you care to say anything about that?
Sentence 26: THE PRESIDENT: Of course it is necessary, because we are terribly short of aluminum in every part of the world.
Sentence 27: Now, how much actually came in as a result of that campaign you will have to find out from the people who ran it.
Sentence 28: It was very successful on the whole.
Sentence 29: And, the next point is that I am going to broaden out Navy Day, the twenty-seventh of October.
Sentence 30: I think it should be broadened out.
Sentence 31: The same way next year—Army Day—we will broaden that out.
Sentence 32: And the thought is that on the twenty-seventh of October we will call it Navy and Total Defense Day, and I probably am going to go down to the hotel here to a dinner—I think it is under the auspices of the Navy League—and say a few kind words into the microphone.
Sentence 33: Number three, I have the checkup on the people who were disqualified under the Selective Service Act for physical, mental, or educational reasons.
Sentence 34: There were about a million young men rejected, which is about 50 percent, just under— a fraction of a point under 50 percent of all those who were called.
Sentence 35: That is a pretty serious thing.
Sentence 36: Something the country ought to take unto itself.
Sentence 37: The breakdown of this 50 percent, or a million men, is roughly somewhat as follows:
About a hundred thousand of them were turned down because they couldn't meet the fourth-grade educational requirements.
Sentence 38: Of the other 900,000, they were rejected because of physical or mental disability.
Sentence 39: So on the basis of that 900,000, this memo shows the percentages of rejection for physical or mental reasons.
Sentence 40: Dental defects—teeth—188,000.
Sentence 41: Little over 20 percent of them.
Sentence 42: That is the principal trouble.
Sentence 43: Defective eyes 13 and something.
Sentence 44: Cardiovascular diseases-well, I will call it heart and circulation- relatively the same thing—10 percent.
Sentence 45: Musculo-skeletal defects 6.8 percent.
Sentence 46: Venereal disease 6.3 percent- 57,000 people.
Sentence 47: Mental and nervous diseases 6.3 percent.
Sentence 48: Hernia 6.2 percent.
Sentence 49: Defects of the ears, 4.6 percent.
Sentence 50: Defects of the feet 4 percent.
Sentence 51: Defective lungs, including T.B., 2.9 percent.
Sentence 52: And then a very large miscellaneous group, 17 percent.
Sentence 53: Those include loss of an arm, or a leg, or an eye, or something of that kind.
Sentence 54: A very large percentage in the miscellaneous group are caused by accidents.
Sentence 55: Of this number, General Hershey estimates that 200,000 out of the 900,000 can be completely rehabilitated and made available for general service in the armed forces.
Sentence 56: Many of the remainder can be rehabilitated to perform only limited service.
Sentence 57: Some, because of mental and nervous cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, and musculo-skeletal defects, are incapable of rehabilitation, or even limited service, and are therefore not being considered under this new rehabilitation program for the Selective Service registrants.
Sentence 58: The initial objective, that I decided on yesterday afternoon in this rehabilitation program, will be the 200,000 registrants who can be completely rehabilitated and made available for general military service, at a relatively small cost and a reasonably short period of time.
Sentence 59: Certain types of diseases, such as deficiencies of teeth, operable hernia, venereal diseases, and eyes, and other minor defects, will be corrected in cases where the Army determines that the registrant will then be acceptable for general military service.
Sentence 60: It's a long-range thing.
Sentence 61: It isn't at this time a matter so much of aiding immediate national defense for this year, or the next year, as of getting a stronger race of Americans in the days to come.
Sentence 62: And that is why this subject is going to be of a good deal of interest in the papers, and to cause people to talk about it.
Sentence 63: It requires a more detailed study than anything that we have ever attempted.
Sentence 64: It requires the cooperation of States, and counties, and cities, and townships.
Sentence 65: And we hope that out of it all, we are going to accomplish something toward the better health of the Nation.
Sentence 66: One of the phases which we can't approve yet, because we haven't studied it, is the phase that has been talked about a great deal in the past few years, and that is the periodic checkup on everybody.
Sentence 67: I suppose, under the Constitution, a person has a right to die at an early age.
Sentence 68: But I think what we call government, local government, State government, has a right to say to that fellow, "Now, look, don't die.
Sentence 69: Why don't you get better?
Sentence 70: Why let this thing go
Sentence 71: on?"—and know more or less as to whether that individual insists on dying or not.
Sentence 72: Constitutionally, he has the right to do it.
Sentence 73: But the Government ought to know what his attitude is.
Sentence 74: (Laughter) . .
Sentence 75: .
Sentence 76: Q. Mr. President, that 100,000 rejected because they haven't a fourth-grade education, are they people who cannot be educated?
Sentence 77: THE PRESIDENT: No, no.
Sentence 78: People who are poor, as well as ignorant.
Sentence 79: Q. Will anything be done about them?
Sentence 80: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 81: Well, that is of course primarily—always has been—a State matter, because the Federal Government's educational work has always been limited to suggestions, and a clearing house of information for all the States' educational departments.
Sentence 82: It is primarily a State matter.
Sentence 83: Q. (interposing) Mr. President —
THE PRESIDENT: (continuing) Education is a local problem.
Sentence 84: Q. Would you not favor Federal aid to education?
Sentence 85: THE PRESIDENT: I don't like to say "yes" or "no" to that question.
Sentence 86: As we know, there are certain sections of the United States that are so poor that their tax valuations- their assessments —are necessarily insufficient to bring in the revenue to run modern and adequate schools.
Sentence 87: Now, perhaps some day we may come to some form of Government aid for, not the poorer, but the poorest sections of the United States.
Sentence 88: As it is, this only proves that they can't afford to educate their own children, but I don't think that the Federal Government ought to undertake running the educational field.
Sentence 89: A great majority of States have pretty good educational systems.
Sentence 90: And certainly the richer States do not need any Federal money.
Sentence 91: Q. Are the people who are handicapped in health, and in education, grouped in any particular part of the country, or are they pretty —
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing)
Sentence 92: Well, that depends; there are many classifications.
Sentence 93: It is perfectly true that the larger part of the people who failed in education come from the South.
Sentence 94: Now, when you come down to the medical and dental end of it, in some diseases there is a greater proportion in the North.
Sentence 95: As to some, there is a greater proportion in the West.
Sentence 96: And some of these cases, the greater proportion is in the South.
Sentence 97: I don't know.
Sentence 98: I haven't got the figures, so it's a general guess on my part.
Sentence 99: I would say, offhand, that on the heart disease thing, and the nervous disorders, you would find a higher percentage coming from the cities than you would from the farms.
Sentence 100: Now that's just guess.
Sentence 101: But it is based on what you might call common sense reasoning.
Sentence 102: We farmers are not so nervous as you city slickers. . . .
Sentence 103: (Laughter)
