Sentence 1: 1941 Excerpts From The Press Conference 38

MR. DONALDSON: All in.
Sentence 2: THE PRESIDENT: I have got two things here.
Sentence 3: One is a statement-is it mimeographed, Steve?
MR. EARLY: Not yet.
Sentence 4: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 5: Steve will have it mimeographed and you can have it- about the work of this new organization called the United Service Organizations for National Defense.
Sentence 6: Yesterday they announced their program of service to soldiers, sailors, and defense workers.
Sentence 7: This work, of course—by way of explanation—is essentially around the various camps, navy yards, and new plants, and provides for the recreation, welfare, and spiritual needs of the young men and women who have answered, and will answer, the call to the national defense.
Sentence 8: The six member organizations of the United Service Organizations are fulfilling an essential and patriotic duty.
Sentence 9: This duty- of maintaining morale on the home front—is one in which every American shares.
Sentence 10: The Federal Government is doing its part.
Sentence 11: It stands squarely behind the United Service Organizations, and Congress has been asked to provide money.
Sentence 12: The national private organizations which have incorporated the United Service Organizations as an over-all planning body are: The Y.M.C.A.; Y.W.C.A.; Catholic Community Service; Jewish Welfare Board; Salvation Army; and the Travelers Aid Society.
Sentence 13: They are to be congratulated on their vision and on the practical common sense of their plans for staffing and operating these 300-odd service centers.
Sentence 14: The local communities, both public and private organizations, are preparing to cooperate with them.
Sentence 15: It is only the groundwork, but what they need is the support of every individual citizen, and they should have united support.
Sentence 16: To facilitate their work throughout the country a national conference of community leaders is to be held in Washington April 17, in cooperation with the Federal Security Administrator and the Secretaries of War and Navy.
Sentence 17: Well, we have been working up toward that.
Sentence 18: We have got them all together, and of course, if I were writing a story, I would emphasize the fact that we have got all of these organizations in under the same tent—which is a perfectly magnificent thing, and didn't even happen in the World War. . . .
Sentence 19: It is a great job.
Sentence 20: In other words, they are all sitting around the same table and working out a combination of their work.
Sentence 21: The other thing I have got is a story which I got out of O.P.M., a new basis to show the progress of the work, and I don't want anybody to suggest that this is being given out with any ideas that we are viewing with pride.
Sentence 22: We are not, we are not satisfied.
Sentence 23: There is room for an awful lot more improvement; but it just shows the amount of work that has been done in the past three months, in comparison with the previous six months, in terms of disbursement.
Sentence 24: Now that is a new approach.
Sentence 25: It isn't in terms of x number of airplanes, or so many guns; it is in terms of disbursement.
Sentence 26: In other words, money actually spent out of the Treasury for work done, and, as you know, we don't spend the money out of the Treasury until the work is done.
Sentence 27: In terms of dollars—in the first three months on these particular things—the acquisition of defense material and construction for defense—we have paid out in the first three months of 1941 one billion, eight hundred million dollars, whereas in the whole of the last six months of 1940—calendar year—we only paid out one billion, four.
Sentence 28: On table number two- aircraft, ships, and ordnance.
Sentence 29: For those three items in the last six months of 1940 we paid out an average of $116,000,000 a month, and the average of the first three months of this year we paid out an average of $197,000,000 a month.
Sentence 30: On new plant facilities during the whole of 1940 we only paid out $45,000,000, and in the first three months of 1941 we paid out $240,000,000.
Sentence 31: For bases, stations, and fortifications during the last six months of 1940, we paid out $330,000,000, and the first three months of 1941 we paid out $550,000,000.
Sentence 32: Q. Five hundred fifty was that, sir?
Sentence 33: THE PRESIDENT: Five hundred fifty.
Sentence 34: Those figures, of course, do not include any payments on British orders.
Sentence 35: Well, that is just to give a slant on the angle of money paid out-actual disbursements; and the fact that we are very greatly accelerating it gives a slight comparison of things that have been done in the last three months-
Sentence 36: I mean the three months of 1941 in comparison with the six months of 1940.
Sentence 37: Q. Mr. President—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing)
Sentence 38: But it is not to be taken, as I remarked before, as any satisfaction on my part with the progress of the program.
Sentence 39: Still much too slow.
Sentence 40: Q.
Sentence 41: How much do you think this should be accelerated in your own mind?
Sentence 42: You say it is much too slow.
Sentence 43: THE PRESIDENT: More.
Sentence 44: Q.
Sentence 45: What is being done?
Sentence 46: THE PRESIDENT: I can't give you a figure on that.
Sentence 47: Q.
Sentence 48: What is being done to do that?
Sentence 49: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 50: Well, we will just keep on using "chestnut burs" all the time.
Sentence 51: You are familiar with the use of "chestnut burs" to make a mule go.
Sentence 52: (Laughter)
Sentence 53: Q.
Sentence 54: Can you identify the mule?
Sentence 55: (Laughter)
Sentence 56: Q.
Sentence 57: Who is the mule?
Sentence 58: (More laughter)
THE PRESIDENT: You ought to, you come from Missouri, Frank.(Laughter)
Q.
Sentence 59: [Frank] I came from Minnesota, sir.
Sentence 60: Q. Mr. President, what are the main reasons why the progress is, as you say, much too slow?
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT: Oh, thousands, thousands of reasons.
Sentence 62: Q. I say the main.
Sentence 63: THE PRESIDENT: Individuals-
Sentence 64: mostly human beings.
Sentence 65: Q.
Sentence 66: Can you break that down?
Sentence 67: (Much laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 68: No.
Sentence 69: Q.
Sentence 70: Mr. President, do you agree with Mr. Biggers that the next hundred days are going to be crucial in our production program?
Sentence 71: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 72: Yes, and the next hundred after that (he laughs) and the next hundred after that probably.
Sentence 73: I can't see as far ahead as that. . . .
Sentence 74: Q. Mr. President, Secretary of the Navy Knox yesterday commended those newspapers and photographic agencies which made no reference to the arrival of the battleship Malaya in New York Harbor.
Sentence 75: That might have been interpreted as a rebuke to those who did?
Sentence 76: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 77: Yes.
Sentence 78: The editorials in those papers which did print the stories and did carry the pictures were the lamest excuses to try to get square with our reading public that I have ever read.
Sentence 79: Q.
Sentence 80: Do you think that the voluntary censorship as suggested was more effective?
Sentence 81: THE PRESIDENT: I noticed some of the papers advocated the immediate clamping down of legal censorship, which is very interesting probably to all the other papers in the United States.
Sentence 82: I prefer to go along with the great majority of the newspapers in the United States at this time.
Sentence 83: I think that covers it.
Sentence 84: Q. Would you like to be quoted in words on that?
Sentence 85: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 86: Yes, I much prefer to go along with the overwhelming majority of newspapers at this time.
Sentence 87: Q. Does that mean something more may be necessary later?
Sentence 88: THE PRESIDENT: You can leave out "at this time," because there is nothing else in sight.
Sentence 89: Q. Would you prefer that we leave that off, "at this time"?
Sentence 90: THE PRESIDENT: I believe the best thing to do is to add to it what I had, "nothing else is in sight at this time.". . .
Sentence 91: Q. Mr. President, five Governors representing the Southern Governors Conference arrive here tomorrow for furthering defense industries.
Sentence 92: Do their efforts in that regard have your Support?
Sentence 93: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 94: Well, let me tell you—let me tell you a story.
Sentence 95: In the first place, this should not be regarded as-
Sentence 96: what shall I say- national defense.
Sentence 97: We are not proceeding on a basis of the benefit by dollars and cents to each and every State of the Union on a square-mile basis or a population basis; we are trying to create national defense on the basis of the greatest speed and efficiency, on a national basis.
Sentence 98: Now, I can go on and point out that I had a certain group come in from certain States that have what might be called a rather severe winter climate- three or four feet of snow; they understood perfectly well when I explained to them that we could not put a camp of 60,000 men up in their State, except in the summertime; and because we want these camps to operate all the year round, from the point of view of national defense, we put them in another section of the country, where they could run all through the winter as well as all through the summer.
Sentence 99: In other words we weren't doing it on a geographical basis but on a climate basis, not an area basis or a sectional basis but on a climate basis.
Sentence 100: In the same way, there are certain industries which from the point of view of efficiency ought to go where they have the best and cheapest access to raw materials, and the most practical and useful access to the type of labor that goes into it.
Sentence 101: Well, that means that there are certain areas, unfortunately, in the country that do not have ready access to certain types of materials, or certain forms of labor.
Sentence 102: Now in the South, of course, they have a great many more of these camps than any other place in the country; that is on account of the climate.
Sentence 103: The Middle West and the East have probably a great deal more factory production allocated to them than in other parts of the country.
Sentence 104: That is solely from the point of view of efficiency.
Sentence 105: We are trying all the time, of course, to decentralize-
Sentence 106: and it is working out pretty well—in accordance with efficiency.
Sentence 107: I wouldn't want to put, for instance, a steel plant up at the entrance to the Glacier National Park.
Sentence 108: I don't think it would work.
Sentence 109: I don't think that I would want to put an all-the-year-round camp of 60,000 men up at the mouth of Glacier National Park.
Sentence 110: I don't think it would work in the wintertime.
Sentence 111: We don't need that many ski troops.
Sentence 112: (Laughter)
Sentence 113: And so I think it will be a fairly easy thing to persuade these Governors of southern States that they are getting a good deal, and we want them to have anything else they can handle for the efficiency of the whole national program. . . .
Sentence 114: Q. Mr. President, you may have answered this question sometime before.
Sentence 115: Is there any law under which you can acquire these German and Italian ships other than purchase?
Sentence 116: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 117: Yes, I think so.
Sentence 118: Q.
Sentence 119: And may they be condemned?
Sentence 120: THE PRESIDENT: After all, things like that—As I have said several times before, if the Federal Government in times of emergency-mind you this is not a full emergency—can take away your ship, Frank
Sentence 121: [Kluckhohn], your yacht (laughter), against your will, you see, that is called the old "right of eminent domain."
Sentence 122: Well, if they can do it to an American citizen—the yacht in our harbor—I think probably the Federal Government would have the right in a future emergency to use the old "right of eminent domain" against some foreign ship.
Sentence 123: Q.
Sentence 124: But that would be only under a full emergency, sir?
Sentence 125: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 126: Yes, that is the way I construe it, although I think probably you can get legal opinion to say that I can do it, even under the present limited emergency.
Sentence 127: Q. Mr. President, when you take by eminent domain it is for the use of the Government.
Sentence 128: Could you devote it to the use of another Government?
Sentence 129: THE PRESIDENT: No, not necessarily.
Sentence 130: You could if you wanted to—if you were at war with the other Government. . .
Sentence 131: .
Sentence 132: Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
