Sentence 1: 1941 Press Conference The Uss Potomac

THE PRESIDENT: I am glad to see you.
Sentence 2: How are you?
Q. Very well, sir.
Sentence 3: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 4: Well, all of you got here all right. . . .
Sentence 5: Q. Could you tell us where this conference with Mr. Churchill was held?
Sentence 6: THE PRESIDENT: I cannot, for obvious reasons.
Sentence 7: I had better make one or two things clear in the beginning.
Sentence 8: Names of ships are out.
Sentence 9: I suppose it has been published.
Sentence 10: The Prime Minister was there on the Prince of Wales and I was there on the Augusta, but outside of that, nothing about ships, nothing about times, dates, and nothing about locations.
Sentence 11: All those things for perfectly obvious reasons, which I don't have to explain.
Sentence 12: Things of that kind cause trouble, if you make known the exact location on the high seas of the President and the Prime Minister.
Sentence 13: However, it was foggy between North Haven and Rockland, and while it's open season out there, no submarine fired a torpedo at us as far as we could see, and we are here safely.
Sentence 14: You want to know certain things, I suppose.
Sentence 15: The easiest thing to do is to give you what we might call the impressions that stand out.
Sentence 16: I think the first thing in the minds of all of us was a very remarkable religious service on the quarterdeck of the Prince o[ Wales last Sunday morning.
Sentence 17: There was their own ship's complement, with three or four hundred bluejackets and marines from American ships, on the quarterdeck, completely intermingled, first one uniform and then another uniform.
Sentence 18: The service was conducted by two chaplains, one English and one American, and, as usual, the lesson was read by the captain of the British ship.
Sentence 19: They had three hymns that everybody took part in, and a little ship's altar was decked with the American flag and the British flag.
Sentence 20: The officers were all intermingled on the fantail, and I think the pictures of it have been released.
Sentence 21: The point is, I think everybody there, officers and enlisted men, felt that it was one of the great historic services.
Sentence 22: I know I did.
Sentence 23: Q.
Sentence 24: That was on the Augusta?
Sentence 25: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 26: No, on the Prince of Wales.
Sentence 27: Conferences were held between—you know who was with me, there is no reason why that shouldn't come out now: the Chief of Staff, General Marshall; Chief of Air Corps, General Arnold; General Burns, he is in charge of the Lease-Lend program; and Colonel Bundy of the Army.
Sentence 28: Q.
Sentence 29: Who is he, sir?
Sentence 30: THE PRESIDENT: I think he is War Plans, Army War Plans.
Sentence 31: Then from the Navy: Admiral Stark, Admiral King, Commander in Chief, Atlantic Fleet; Admiral Turner, of the War Plans Section, Navy Department; Captain Sherman, Operations; and then, of course, my own staff, General Watson, Admiral McIntire, and Captain Beardall.
Sentence 32: And two civilians, Mr. Hopkins and myself.
Sentence 33: Q.
Sentence 34: Your two sons?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 35: Yes, that was just pure luck.
Sentence 36: Happened to catch them after we got there.
Sentence 37: Q. Mr. Elliott and Franklin, Jr.?
Sentence 38: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 39: Yes.
Sentence 40: Also Mr. Harriman,.
Sentence 41: and Mr. Welles from the State Department.
Sentence 42: And the British, of course, had what might be called "opposite numbers" in practically every case in that list that I have mentioned.
Sentence 43: The conferences were held between the opposite numbers in groups, but they were held partly on the Augusta and partly on the Prince of Wales.
Sentence 44: Actually the conferences between the Prime Minister and me were all held, except one, on the Augusta.
Sentence 45: It was a little bit difficult for me in getting over on the Prince of Wales.
Sentence 46: Q. How long was Mr. Churchill actually with you?
Sentence 47: THE PRESIDENT: That I can't tell you for obvious reasons.
Sentence 48: Q.
Sentence 49: Can you tell us the genesis of the whole plan, who originated it?
Sentence 50: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 51: The thing has been talked about since last February, and would have taken place a good deal earlier, had it not been for the campaign in Greece, and the campaign in Crete.
Sentence 52: You might say it was somewhat delayed, about three months, over the original intention.
Sentence 53: Q. Was it your idea, sir?
Sentence 54: THE PRESIDENT: I should say it was our joint idea.
Sentence 55: Q. Mr. President, the announcements after the conference spoke of peace aims.
Sentence 56: The conferences themselves seemed to be conferences of possible procedure in defense Of—
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 57: I think that is a bit of a narrow way of looking at things.
Sentence 58: Put it this way: that the conferences were primarily an interchange of views relating to the present and the future—a swapping of information, which was eminently successful.
Sentence 59: I think one of the subjects which perhaps all overlooked, both in the statements and comments, was the need for an exchange of what might be called views relating to what is happening to the world under the Nazi regime, as applied to other Nations.
Sentence 60: The more that is discussed and looked into, the more terrible the thought becomes of having the world as a whole dominated by the kind of influences which have been at work in the occupied or affiliated Nations.
Sentence 61: It's a thing that needs to be brought home to all of the democracies, more and more.
Sentence 62: Q. Mr. President, can you tell us anything about the actual implementation of those broad declarations, now?
Sentence 63: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 64: Interchange of views, that's all.
Sentence 65: Nothing else.
Sentence 66: Q.
Sentence 67: We might assume that you have complete understanding with Mr. Churchill on all aspects of the world situation, including the Far East?
THE PRESIDENT: When you come down to localities, I don't suppose there is a single section or a single continent that was not discussed at one time or another, in all the conferences you ever heard of.
Sentence 68: Q. Are we any closer to entering the war, actually?
Sentence 69: THE PRESIDENT: I should say, no.
Sentence 70: Q.
Sentence 71: May we quote directly?
Sentence 72: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 73: No, you can quote indirectly.
Sentence 74: Q. Mr. President, is Russia bound to subscribe to this eight point program?
Sentence 75: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 76: No.
Q.
Sentence 77: Will she be?
Sentence 78: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 79: Nobody ever suggested it until you did.
Sentence 80: Q.
Sentence 81: Can you tell us anything about aid to Russia?
Sentence 82: THE PRESIDENT: You know just as much about it as I do, or Mr. Churchill, for discussion.
Sentence 83: Last year two commentators entirely overlooked two factors—one was geography, and the other was goods and munitions.
Sentence 84: We did discuss the fitting in of Russian needs to the existing production program, and we also discussed what might be called the fact that the Russian needs might be divided into two categories.
Sentence 85: The first is material which is immediately available, to get there during this summer's campaign, and on the assumption that winter will bring at least a partial halt to campaigns in Russia.
Sentence 86: The other part is the materials and munitions which can be got to Russia by the time the spring campaign opens, and the fitting in of all of that to our own domestic needs and other lease-lend orders.
Sentence 87: Q.
Sentence 88: You have no doubt the Russian resistance will continue into winter?
Sentence 89: THE PRESIDENT: I guess from that there is a sort of an assumption in there. . . .
Sentence 90: Q.
Sentence 91: May I ask whether another lend-lease appropriation is in sight?
Sentence 92: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 93: The answer is just what it has been for the last month.
Sentence 94: We are still studying it.
Sentence 95: And regarding the place where we will ask for more money, there is a certain amount of the present fund which we cannot allocate at this particular time.
Sentence 96: Certain sums have been set aside by act of Congress for things like food, and of course food supplies don't have to be—like wheat for instance—don't have to be manufactured months ahead of time.
Sentence 97: A certain amount of money is being withheld from the first lend-lease appropriation to take care of agricultural needs during the next few months.
Sentence 98: We haven't got up any list of things.
Sentence 99: They have been working on it. . . .
Sentence 100: Q. One thing, Mr. President, were any steps taken to document this meeting for history, from the American point of view?
Sentence 101: THE PRESIDENT: I will have to talk off the record- not for use, literally, not for use.
Sentence 102: There is no reason why you fellows shouldn't know.
Sentence 103: The reason I can't use it is that it would be discourteous.
Sentence 104: The whole point of the original arrangement was, as you know, secrecy, for perfectly obvious naval reasons, and I didn't take any newspapermen.
Sentence 105: Neither did I take any cameramen.
Sentence 106: But when we got there we found that there was a moving-picture man who goes around with Mr. Churchill, and he says he is very different from ours.
Sentence 107: Mr. Churchill travels with no newspapermen whatsoever, but he does travel with a regular Ministry of Information motion-picture man, which is the regular British custom, and I think he is a Government employee and not a press association, and nearly all the moving pictures that you see of Mr. Churchill were taken by Government men and then given to the press.
Sentence 108: We found that he had this man who customarily travels with him, and I was able to find, from Navy personnel, one or two people who took some pictures which were sent down to Steve
Sentence 109: [Early] and have been released.
Sentence 110: On the question of writing, why, I never assumed for a minute that there would be an official historian, and the Ministry of Information in England, at the last minute, had sent two gentlemen who they insisted were not newspapermen, they were people who wrote books.
Sentence 111: I said, "Good God, I've got a whole lot of people who are not only newspapermen, but have written books too!"
Sentence 112: If I had known, I would have done it too.
Sentence 113: So they are two gentlemen who were literary gentlemen.
Sentence 114: They were told very definitely by me, and they acceded to it, if these two literary gentlemen ever wrote anything over there inside of a year, about this conference, that they were to give it to the three American press associations, in London, free of charge.
Sentence 115: That was about the best I could do.
Sentence 116: If they do write anything, the three press associations will get their stuff.
Sentence 117: That is the agreement, whether they are going to write for publication or British Naval Archives.
Sentence 118: I have protected you as best I could, having been taken by surprise.
Sentence 119: I think on the three press associations, there is no particular reason why you shouldn't let your London offices know that you are aware of the fact that there were two literary gentlemen who were put on board by the British Ministry of Information, and that they have agreed with me that any release from the pens of either of those gentlemen goes to our three press associations.
Sentence 120: I couldn't think of any better way to cover it.
Sentence 121: I can't say, "Mea culpa," because it was the other fellow's "culpa."
