Sentence 1: 1941 Excerpts From The Press Conference 66

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I just got word from the Navy Department that that ship that the State Department told you about this morning was sunk on Friday last, at 23 hours and 25 minutes G.M.T. (Greenwich Mean Time) on Friday night, which of course, if you work it out for the position of the ship at the time, was Saturday morning, obviously—23:25, for those of you who don't go on a 24-hour day, means 11:25 P.M.
Sentence 3: And G.M.T. means Zero time, or Greenwich time; which translated into the position of the ship would be two or three hours' difference in time.
Sentence 4: I am wrong on that—it wouldn't have been Saturday morning, it would be early in the evening
Sentence 5: [Friday] at that time.
Sentence 6: Q. Nine o'clock.
Sentence 7: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 8: The latitude was 61 (degrees) 36 (minutes).
Sentence 9: North.
Sentence 10: The longitude was 35 (degrees) 07 (minutes) West.
Sentence 11: And for those of you who haven't got maps, it was about 275 miles northeast of Cape Farewell, which is the southern tip of Greenland.
Sentence 12: Q. Northeast?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 13: Yes.
Sentence 14: Obviously it could not be northwest, because then it would have been the other side of Greenland. . . .
Sentence 15: Q.
Sentence 16: What was that longitude?
Sentence 17: THE PRESIDENT: Thirty-five (degrees) 07 (minutes).
Sentence 18: Q. Mr. President, any indication as to what happened to the crew?
Sentence 19: THE PRESIDENT: No word as to whether there are any survivors or not.
Sentence 20: The only information we have is that it was a submarine attack, and the ship was in company with a Canadian escorted convoy.
Sentence 21: Q. Was the ship bound for Britain, or for Iceland, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 22: Iceland.
Sentence 23: Q. How did you get the word on this?
Sentence 24: THE PRESIDENT: I don't think I can tell you that.
Sentence 25: Q. Mr. President, was it a general cargo, or any specific cargo?
Sentence 26: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 27: General cargo.
Sentence 28: Q. Mr. President, do you think that these ships that are being sunk so rapidly, should be provided with some measures of self-defense?
Sentence 29: THE PRESIDENT: That is a pending question.
Sentence 30: In other words, this whole thing—if we look at it from the point of view of each little detail, aren't we rather greatly overlooking, or tending to overlook the main objective, which is national defense?
Sentence 31: And by going into the details of this, that, or the other thing, aren't we drawing a "red herring" across the objective of national defense?
Sentence 32: It has been made perfectly clear what is happening in this world today.
Sentence 33: The world is facing the most outrageous movement in all history, literally all history of the world up to the present time- recorded history.
Sentence 34: A certain group of people is trying to dominate the whole world, and we are trying to defend the Americas against that attempted domination.
Sentence 35: Congress has made it perfectly clear that a part of that defense is to try to help, in every way we can, those people who are conducting active war against this attempted domination of the world.
Sentence 36: It is part of our work.
Sentence 37: We are doing all we can to help them and, incidentally, to prevent the dictators from gaining footholds, or acquiring positions where they could immediately and directly threaten us.
Sentence 38: That is why we have American troops in Iceland today.
Sentence 39: That is why we are keeping the lanes open.
Sentence 40: That is why we are trying to get stuff over to England safely, for their use- munitions, and foodstuffs to keep them going in this battle.
Sentence 41: I don't think that there is much argument that is justified—with honesty—in trying to obscure the main objectives, by talking about whether the ship was in convoy, or was not; whether the ship was armed, or was not; whether the ship was carrying the Panama flag, or the United States flag.
Sentence 42: They are just "red herrings" drawn across the trail of the main purpose of this hemisphere.
Sentence 43: Thank you.
Sentence 44: That's all for today.
Sentence 45: Q.
Sentence 46: You can always squelch a poor reporter.
Sentence 47: If it is a matter of details, suppose we look at some of the details.
Sentence 48: Isn't it easier to defend the Administration's position, and the United States, with guns on the ships than without?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 49: I think it is.
Sentence 50: Q. Is that a fair question?
Sentence 51: THE PRESIDENT: I think you are right, and I think probably that we are heading toward the arming of American merchant ships, and possibly the providing of arms to the merchant ships of—let us say—other American Nations.
Sentence 52: This particular ship [Pink Star] did carry a gun.
Sentence 53: Panama registry.
Sentence 54: American ownership.
Sentence 55: Q.
Sentence 56: May I ask a question of fact?
Sentence 57: In history, on this thing, the arming of merchant ships was an ordinary affair, under international law, was it, or not?
Sentence 58: Under a plain principle of international law, but before we had the Neutrality Act?
Sentence 59: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 60: Oh, absolutely and clearly.
Sentence 61: Now, you take the examples that I have used of the so-called quasi-war against France in 1798.
Sentence 62: Nearly all of our merchant ships were armed, and a great many of them, because of their armament, beat off French privateers.
Sentence 63: Same way in the War of 1812; a great many of our merchant ships were armed, and in accordance with, as you say, international law beat off the attacks of British privateers.
Sentence 64: And there were a great many cases of privately owned American ships, that were armed for voyages into the Mediterranean, which beat off the attacks of Barbary corsairs.
Sentence 65: There isn't any question about that.
Sentence 66: According to present law that is forbidden.
Sentence 67: Q. Mr. President, if we are going to arm merchant ships, we have got to amend the present Neutrality Law, that is right?
Sentence 68: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 69: Yes, that is right.
Sentence 70: Q.
Sentence 71: Then is it going to be piecemeal repeal on that from now on, or are you going-
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing)
Sentence 72: Well, that's the thing that's under consideration at the present time, but there probably won't be any decision on it until next week.
Sentence 73: Q.
Sentence 74: That's bigger than a "red herring"?
Sentence 75: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 76: Yes.
Sentence 77: In other words, the problem is how much we will ask in the way of repeal.
Sentence 78: Q. Mr. President, while we are on the subject of merchant ships, have you anything to say regarding the seamen's strike?
Sentence 79: THE PRESIDENT: The seamen's strike is being certified this afternoon at the request of the Maritime Commission, and by the Department of Labor, to the National Mediation Board. . . .
Sentence 80: Of course it is perfectly clear that those ships have got to move.
Sentence 81: They simply can't be kept tied up.
Sentence 82: Q. Would it be possible then, Mr. President, for the Maritime Commission to take over the majority of the merchant lines?
Sentence 83: THE PRESIDENT: I don't think we can go into that at the present time.
Sentence 84: I don't think you can go into method or detail at the present time, but you can use the statement that I said that the ships have got to move.
Sentence 85: They can't be kept tied up because of labor disputes.
Sentence 86: And at the same time, the trouble is being referred to the National Mediation Board, to see if it can be amicably settled.
Sentence 87: Q.
Sentence 88: And the ships have got to move?
Sentence 89: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 90: But the ships have got to move.
Sentence 91: Q. Mr. President, to refresh our memory, when you were in the Navy in 1917, were merchant vessels armed by a fiat of the Government, or did it go to Congress?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 92: No, there was a filibuster up to the fourth of March.
Sentence 93: Then, when the special session began, and almost immediately afterwards—
Q. (interposing)
Sentence 94: In the meantime, President Wilson said he had the power.
Sentence 95: Could he do it?
Sentence 96: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 97: He did it.
Sentence 98: And more than that, I remember distinctly that beginning about the fifth of February, when I got back from Haiti and Santo Domingo, with the approval of Mr. Daniels [Josephus Daniels, then Secretary of the Navy] we went ahead ordering the guns with which to arm the ships.
Sentence 99: Q. Mr. President, that was between the fourth of March and the seventh of April that we went ahead with it.
Sentence 100: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 101: Yes, yes.
Q. Congress convened around the fifth or sixth of April.
Sentence 102: THE PRESIDENT: I think that's right.
Sentence 103: Q. Mr. President, have you already ordered the guns for arming our merchant ships?
Sentence 104: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 105: The answer to that is that we are building every type of gun that is useful—that can be used- as fast as we can do it, under the present appropriations and orders. . . .
