Sentence 1: 1941 Excerpts From The Press Conference 72

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I still hope to get off this afternoon at three o'clock.
Sentence 3: I was asked in the front row when I would come back.
Sentence 4: I can't answer the question because I don't know.
Sentence 5: I hope to stay until Tuesday, but I am not sure that I can.
Sentence 6: If somebody will ask me what the reason is, the reason is the Japanese situation.
Sentence 7: I have here a release, which you will get when you go out, in regard to merchant vessels.
Sentence 8: This is after consultation between State, War, Navy, and Maritime Commission.
Sentence 9: (Reading):
"American merchant vessels sailing on routes between the United States ports and ports of Spain, Portugal, and their adjacent island possessions will not be armed at this time.
Sentence 10: "American merchant vessels sailing in the inter-American trade between ports of the United States and ports of Central and South America will not be armed, at this stage.
Sentence 11: "American merchant vessels sailing on routes in the Pacific Ocean will not be armed under existing circumstances.
Sentence 12: "Public announcement will be made of any change in policy affecting any of these routes.
Sentence 13: "And that is all.
Sentence 14: Q. Mr. President, could you say how long you think the "existing circumstances" may prevail?
Sentence 15: THE PRESIDENT: I think I would ask that question in Tokyo and not in Washington.
Sentence 16: Q. Is there anything you can tell us, sir, about these Japanese negotiations?
Sentence 17: THE PRESIDENT: I think I'd better not.
Sentence 18: Q.
Sentence 19: If you have read newspapers carefully, I think you would come to the conclusion that we have been getting news based on Tokyo, to a large extent, in that respect.
Sentence 20: I just simply throw that out.
Sentence 21: THE PRESIDENT: I think that probably is true, and it has been based on an American policy of infinite patience.
Sentence 22: Q. Well, Mr. President, could you say, sir, whether these negotiations have broken down temporarily?
Sentence 23: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 24: No.
Sentence 25: They have not.
Sentence 26: Q. Mr. President, did the Japanese yesterday bring any response to the document presented by Mr. Hull?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 27: NO, no.
Sentence 28: Q. Mr. President, can you tell when the next meeting will be held with the Japanese?
Sentence 29: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know.
Sentence 30: Q.
Sentence 31: Can you tell us, sir, if there were any new developments in your talks with the Japanese different from those that they have had from Mr. Hull?
Sentence 32: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 33: No. I would say just exactly the same.
Sentence 34: I think I could tell you, for background- but only for background—that the situation seems serious, because our one desire has been peace in the Pacific, and the taking of no steps to alter the prospects of peace, which of course has meant non-aggression.
Sentence 35: It really boils down to that.
Sentence 36: And also—as background—I was, last spring, talking along the line of general peace for the Pacific, based on a settlement of the war between China and Japan- the restoration of peace there, plus a permanent arrangement for non-aggression in the Pacific, and the restoration of normal economic relations, access to raw materials.
Sentence 37: And as you know, the Secretary of State, with even more patience than I have—which is saying a whole lot—had been holding conversations from, I think it was, April.
Sentence 38: And in the middle of them came the Japanese expedition to Indo-China, which is very far afield, and caused us very great concern, because it seemed to show a reasonable parallel with the Hitler methods in Europe.
Sentence 39: As, for example, the infiltration, over a period of several months, of the German armies into Rumania and Hungary, placing themselves in the position where strategically they were all set to attack Yugoslavia and Greece.
Sentence 40: And of course the drawing of the parallel made peacefully inclined people over here wonder whether this occupation, with a limited number of troops in Indo-China, was the beginning of a similar action in the Far East, placing obvious American interests in great jeopardy if the drawing of such a parallel was justified.
Sentence 41: The American flag, of course, does fly from the Philippines.
Sentence 42: And even before the Japanese went into Indo-China, one might almost say that the Philippines were located in a horseshoe, with Japanese military control over the coasts of China, all the way down to the southern border of China, and Japanese military control on the opposite side- the east- over the mandated islands, so called.
Sentence 43: You look at a map closely, that is a sort of a horseshoe, open at the southern end, and the Philippines in the middle of it.
Sentence 44: I think a study of the map would be advisable for all of us, because the Hitler method has always been aimed at a little move here and a little move there, by which complete encirclement, or the obtaining of essential military points, was merely a prelude to the extension of aggression to other places.
Sentence 45: It's a perfectly obvious historical fact today.
Sentence 46: And we are of course thinking not only about the American flag in the Philippines, not only about certain vital defense needs which come from that open end of the horseshoe, but we are thinking about something even more important, and that is the possible extension of control by aggression into the whole of the Pacific area.
Sentence 47: And we are thinking about what it would mean to this country if that policy were to be used against us in the whole Pacific area.
Sentence 48: I don't think that anything more can be said at this time.
Sentence 49: We are waiting ....
Sentence 50: Q. Mr. President, would this mean that we are working for the status quo?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 51: Yes.
Sentence 52: We have been for a long time.
Sentence 53: Q. Mr. President—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) Wait a minute.
Sentence 54: I wouldn't say working for the status quo, because we —
Q. (interposing) Temporary status quo?
THE PRESIDENT: You have got to leave China out of the status quo.
Sentence 55: We are certainly not working for the status quo in China.
Sentence 56: Q. (interjecting)
Sentence 57: That's right.
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT: (continuing) Or Indo-China, for that matter.
Sentence 59: Q.
Sentence 60: Against further aggression?
THE PRESIDENT: Against further aggression.
Sentence 61: We are working to remove the present aggression. . . .
Sentence 62: Q.
Sentence 63: That Chinese situation is absolutely solid and set, is it not?
Sentence 64: THE PRESIDENT: Absolutely.
Sentence 65: Q.
Sentence 66: No chance of compromise?
Sentence 67: THE PRESIDENT: No. . . .
