Sentence 1: 1941 Fireside Chat 11

Navy Department of the United States has reported to me that on the morning of September fourth the United States destroyer Greer, proceeding in full daylight toward Iceland, had reached a point southeast of Greenland.
Sentence 2: She was carrying American mail to Iceland.
Sentence 3: She was flying the American flag.
Sentence 4: Her identity as an American ship was unmistakable.
Sentence 5: She was then and there attacked by a submarine.
Sentence 6: Germany admits that it was a German submarine.
Sentence 7: The submarine deliberately fired a torpedo at the Greer, followed later by another torpedo attack.
Sentence 8: In spite of what Hitler's propaganda bureau has invented, and in spite of what any American obstructionist organization may prefer to believe, I tell you the blunt fact that the German submarine fired first upon this American destroyer without warning, and with deliberate design to sink her.
Sentence 9: Our destroyer, at the time, was in waters which the Government of the United States had declared to be waters of self-defense-surrounding outposts of American protection in the Atlantic.
Sentence 10: In the North of the Atlantic, outposts have been established by us in Iceland, in Greenland, in Labrador and in Newfoundland.
Sentence 11: Through these waters there pass many ships of many flags.
Sentence 12: They bear food and other supplies to civilians; and they bear materiel of war, for which the people of the United States are spending billions of dollars, and which, by Congressional action, they have declared to be essential for the defense of our own land.
Sentence 13: The United States destroyer, when attacked, was proceeding on a legitimate mission.
Sentence 14: If the destroyer was visible to the submarine when the torpedo was fired, then the attack was a deliberate attempt by the Nazis to sing [
see APP Note.
Sentence 15: ] a clearly identified American warship.
Sentence 16: On the other hand, if the submarine was beneath the surface of the sea and, with the aid of its listening devices, fired in the direction of the sound of the American destroyer without even taking the trouble to learn its identity—as the official German communique would indicate -then the attack was even more outrageous.
Sentence 17: For it indicates a policy of indiscriminate violence against any vessel sailing the seas- belligerent or non-belligerent.
Sentence 18: This was piracy- piracy legally and morally.
Sentence 19: It was not the first nor the last act of piracy which the Nazi Government has committed against the American flag in this war.
Sentence 20: For attack has followed attack.
Sentence 21: A few months ago an American flag merchant ship, the Robin Moor, was sunk by a Nazi submarine in the middle of the South Atlantic, under circumstances violating long-established international law and violating every principle of humanity.
Sentence 22: The passengers and the crew were forced into open boats hundreds of miles from land, in direct violation of international agreements signed by nearly all Nations including the Government.
Sentence 23: of Germany.
Sentence 24: No apology, no allegation of mistake, no offer of reparations has come from the Nazi Government.
Sentence 25: In July, 1941, an American battleship in North American waters was followed by a submarine which for a long time sought to maneuver itself into a position of attack.
Sentence 26: The periscope of the submarine was clearly seen.
Sentence 27: No British or American submarines were within hundreds of miles of this spot at the time, so the nationality of the submarine is clear.
Sentence 28: Five days ago a United States Navy ship on patrol picked up three survivors of an American-owned ship operating under the flag of our sister Republic of Panama—the S.S. Sessa.
Sentence 29: On August seventeenth, she had been first torpedoed without warning, and then shelled, near Greenland, while carrying civilian supplies to Iceland.
Sentence 30: It is feared that the other members of her crew have been drowned.
Sentence 31: In view of the established presence of German submarines in this vicinity, there can be no reasonable doubt as to the identity of the flag of the attacker.
Sentence 32: Five days ago, another United States merchant ship, the Steel Seafarer, was sunk by a German aircraft in the Red Sea two hundred and twenty miles south of Suez.
Sentence 33: She was bound for an Egyptian port.
Sentence 34: So four of the vessels sunk or attacked flew the American flag and were clearly identifiable.
Sentence 35: Two of these ships were warships of the American Navy.
Sentence 36: In the fifth case, the vessel sunk clearly carried the flag of our sister Republic of Panama.
Sentence 37: In the face of all this, we Americans are keeping our feet on the ground.
Sentence 38: Our type of democratic civilization has outgrown the thought of feeling compelled to fight some other Nation by reason of any single piratical attack on one of our ships.
Sentence 39: We are not becoming hysterical or losing our sense of proportion.
Sentence 40: Therefore, what I am thinking and saying tonight does not relate to any isolated episode.
Sentence 41: Instead, we Americans are taking a long-range point of view in regard to certain fundamentals and to a series of events on land and on sea which must be considered as a whole —as a part of a world pattern.
Sentence 42: It would be unworthy of a great Nation to exaggerate an isolated incident, or to become inflamed by some one act of violence.
Sentence 43: But it would be inexcusable folly to minimize such incidents in the face of evidence which makes it clear that the incident is not isolated, but is part of a general plan.
Sentence 44: The important truth is that these acts of international lawlessness are a manifestation of a design which has been made clear to the American people for a long time.
Sentence 45: It is the Nazi design to abolish the freedom of the seas, and to acquire absolute control and domination of these seas for themselves.
Sentence 46: For with control of the seas in their own hands, the way can obviously become clear for their next step- domination of the United States—domination of the Western Hemisphere by force of arms.
Sentence 47: Under Nazi control of the seas, no merchant ship of the United States or of any other American Republic would be free to carry on any peaceful commerce, except by the condescending grace of this foreign and tyrannical power.
Sentence 48: The Atlantic Ocean which has been, and which should always be, a free and friendly highway for us would then become a deadly menace to the commerce of the United States, to the coasts of the United States, and even to the inland cities of the United States.
Sentence 49: The Hitler Government, in defiance of the laws of the sea, in defiance of the recognized rights of all other Nations, has presumed to declare, on paper, that great areas of the seas—even including a vast expanse lying in the Western Hemisphere—are to be closed, and that no ships may enter them for any purpose, except at peril of being sunk.
Sentence 50: Actually they are sinking ships at will and without warning in widely separated areas both within and far outside of these far-flung pretended zones.
Sentence 51: This Nazi attempt to seize control of the oceans is but a counterpart of the Nazi plots now being carried on throughout the Western Hemisphere- all designed toward the same end.
Sentence 52: For Hitler's advance guards—not only his avowed agents but also his dupes among us- have sought to make ready for him footholds and bridgeheads in the New World, to be used as soon as he has gained control of the oceans.
Sentence 53: His intrigues, his plots, his machinations, his sabotage in this New World are all known to the Government of the United States.
Sentence 54: Conspiracy has followed conspiracy.
Sentence 55: For example, last year a plot to seize the Government of Uruguay was smashed by the prompt action of that country, which was supported in full by her American neighbors.
Sentence 56: A like plot was then hatching in Argentina, and that Government has carefully and wisely blocked it at every point.
Sentence 57: More recently, an endeavor was made to subvert the Government of Bolivia.
Sentence 58: And within the past few weeks the discovery was made of secret airlanding fields in Colombia, within easy range of the Panama Canal.
Sentence 59: I could multiply instance upon instance.
Sentence 60: To be ultimately successful in world mastery, Hitler knows that he must get control of the seas.
Sentence 61: He must first destroy the bridge of ships which we are building across the Atlantic and over which we shall continue to roll the implements of war to help destroy him, to destroy all his works in the end.
Sentence 62: He must wipe out our patrol on sea and in the air if he is to do it.
Sentence 63: He must silence the British Navy.
Sentence 64: I think it must be explained over and over again to people who like to think of the United States Navy as an invincible protection, that this can be true only if the British Navy survives.
Sentence 65: And that, my friends, is simple arithmetic.
Sentence 66: For if the world outside of the Americas falls under Axis domination, the shipbuilding facilities which the Axis powers would then possess in all of Europe, in the British Isles, and in the Far East would be much greater than all the shipbuilding facilities and potentialities of all of the Americas- not only greater, but two or three times greater- enough to win.
Sentence 67: Even if the United States threw all its resources into such a situation, seeking to double and even redouble the size of our Navy, the Axis powers, in control of the rest of the world, would have the manpower and the physical resources to out build us several times over.
Sentence 68: It is time for all Americans, Americans of all the Americas to stop being deluded by the romantic notion that the Americas can go on living happily and peacefully in a Nazi-dominated world.
Sentence 69: Generation after generation, America has battled for the general policy of the freedom of the seas.
Sentence 70: And that policy is a very simple one-but a basic, a fundamental one.
Sentence 71: It means that no Nation has the right to make the broad oceans of the world at great distances from the actual theater of land war unsafe for the commerce of others.
Sentence 72: That has been our policy, proved time and time again, in all our history.
Sentence 73: Our policy has applied from the earliest days of the Republic—and still applies—not merely to the Atlantic but to the Pacific and to all other oceans as well.
Sentence 74: Unrestricted submarine warfare in 1941 constitutes a defiance—an act of aggression- against that historic American policy.
Sentence 75: It is now clear that Hitler has begun his campaign to control the seas by ruthless force and by wiping out every vestige of international law, every vestige of humanity.
Sentence 76: His intention has been made clear.
Sentence 77: The American people can have no further illusions about it.
Sentence 78: No tender whisperings of appeasers that Hitler is not interested in the Western Hemisphere, no soporific lullabies that a wide ocean protects us from him- can long have any effect on the hard-headed, far-sighted, and realistic American people.
Sentence 79: Because of these episodes, because of the movements and operations of German warships, and because of the clear, repeated proof that the present Government of Germany has no respect for treaties or for international law, that it has no decent attitude toward neutral Nations or human life- we Americans are now face to face not with abstract theories but with cruel, relentless facts.
Sentence 80: This attack on the Greer was no localized military operation in the North Atlantic.
Sentence 81: This was no mere episode in a struggle between two Nations.
Sentence 82: This was one determined step toward creating a permanent world system based on force, on terror, and on murder.
Sentence 83: And I am sure that even now the Nazis are waiting to see whether the United States will by silence give them the green light to go ahead on this path of destruction.
Sentence 84: The Nazi danger to our Western world has long ceased to be a mere possibility.
Sentence 85: The danger is here now—not only from a military enemy but from an enemy of all law, all liberty, all morality, all religion.
Sentence 86: There has now come a time when you and I must see the cold, inexorable necessity of saying to these inhuman, unrestrained seekers of world conquest and permanent world domination by the sword: "You seek to throw our children and our children's children into your form of terrorism and slavery.
Sentence 87: You have now attacked our own safety.
Sentence 88: You shall go no further.
Sentence 89: "
Normal practices of diplomacy—note writing—are of no possible use in dealing with international outlaws who sink our ships and kill our citizens.
Sentence 90: One peaceful Nation after another has met disaster because each refused to look the Nazi danger squarely in the eye until it actually had them by the throat.
Sentence 91: The United States will not make that fatal mistake.
Sentence 92: No act of violence, no act of intimidation will keep us from maintaining intact two bulwarks of American defense: First, our line of supply of materiel to the enemies of Hitler; and second, the freedom of our shipping on the high seas.
Sentence 93: No matter what it takes, no matter what it costs, we will keep open the line of legitimate commerce in these defensive waters.
Sentence 94: We have sought no shooting war with Hitler.
Sentence 95: We do not seek it now.
Sentence 96: But neither do we want peace so much, that we are willing to pay for it by permitting him to attack our naval and merchant ships while they are on legitimate business.
Sentence 97: I assume that the German leaders are not deeply concerned, tonight or any other time, by what we Americans or the American Government say or publish about them.
Sentence 98: We cannot bring about the downfall of Nazism by the use of long-range invective.
Sentence 99: But when you see a rattlesnake poised to strike, you do not wait until he has struck before you crush him.
Sentence 100: These Nazi submarines and raiders are the rattlesnakes of the Atlantic.
Sentence 101: They are a menace to the free pathways of the high seas.
Sentence 102: They are a challenge to our sovereignty.
Sentence 103: They hammer at our most precious rights when they attack ships of the American flag—symbols of our independence, our freedom, our very life.
Sentence 104: It is clear to all Americans that the time has come when the Americas themselves must now be defended.
Sentence 105: A continuation of attacks in our own waters, or in waters that could be used for further and greater attacks on us, will inevitably weaken our American ability to repel Hitlerism.
Sentence 106: Do not let us be hair-splitters.
Sentence 107: Let us not ask ourselves whether the Americas should begin to defend themselves after the first attack, or the fifth attack, or the tenth attack, or the twentieth attack.
Sentence 108: The time for active defense is now.
Sentence 109: Do not let us split hairs.
Sentence 110: Let us not say: "We will only defend ourselves if the torpedo succeeds in getting home, or if the crew and the passengers are drowned.
Sentence 111: "
This is the time for prevention of attack.
Sentence 112: If submarines or raiders attack in distant waters, they can attack equally well within sight of our own shores.
Sentence 113: Their very presence in any waters which America deems vital to its defense constitutes an attack.
Sentence 114: In the waters which we deem necessary for our defense, American naval vessels and American planes will no longer wait until Axis submarines lurking under the water, or Axis raiders on the surface of the sea, strike their deadly blow—first.
Sentence 115: Upon our naval and air patrol—now operating in large number over a vast expanse of the Atlantic Ocean—falls the duty of maintaining the American policy of freedom of the seas—now.
Sentence 116: That means, very simply, very clearly, that our patrolling vessels and planes will protect all merchant ships—not only American ships but ships of any flag—engaged in commerce in our defensive waters.
Sentence 117: They will protect them from submarines; they will protect them from surface raiders.
Sentence 118: This situation is not new.
Sentence 119: The second President of the United States, John Adams, ordered the United States Navy to clean out European privateers and European ships of war which were infesting the Caribbean and South American waters, destroying American commerce.
Sentence 120: The third President of the United States, Thomas Jefferson, ordered the United States Navy to end the attacks being made upon American and other ships by the corsairs of the Nations of North Africa.
Sentence 121: My obligation as President is historic; it is clear.
Sentence 122: It is inescapable.
Sentence 123: It is no act of war on our part when we decide to protect the seas that are vital to American defense.
Sentence 124: The aggression is not ours.
Sentence 125: Ours is solely defense.
Sentence 126: But let this warning be clear.
Sentence 127: From now on, if German or Italian vessels of war enter the waters, the protection of which is necessary for American defense, they do so at their own peril.
Sentence 128: The orders which I have given as Commander in Chief of the United States Army and Navy are to carry out that policy—at once.
Sentence 129: The sole responsibility rests upon Germany.
Sentence 130: There will be no shooting unless Germany continues to seek it.
Sentence 131: That is my obvious duty in this crisis.
Sentence 132: That is the clear right of this sovereign Nation.
Sentence 133: This is the only step possible, if we would keep tight the wall of defense which we are pledged to maintain around this Western Hemisphere.
Sentence 134: I have no illusions about the gravity of this step.
Sentence 135: I have not taken it hurriedly or lightly.
Sentence 136: It is the result of months and months of constant thought and anxiety and prayer.
Sentence 137: In the protection of your Nation and mine it cannot be avoided.
Sentence 138: The American people have faced other grave crises in their history—with American courage, and with American resolution.
Sentence 139: They 'will do no less today.
Sentence 140: They know the actualities of the attacks upon us.
Sentence 141: They know the necessities of a bold defense against these attacks.
Sentence 142: They know that the times call for clear heads and fearless hearts.
Sentence 143: And with that inner strength that comes to a free people conscious of their duty, and conscious of the righteousness of what they do, they will—with Divine help and guidance—stand their ground against this latest assault upon their democracy, their sovereignty, and their freedom.
