Sentence 1: 1941 Excerpts From The Press Conference 41

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: You people are becoming very popular.
Sentence 3: I am going to charge admission pretty soon.
Sentence 4: I have to pay some income tax—so I must charge admission to the audience here if they want to see and hear you all.
Sentence 5: Think that is a good idea?
Sentence 6: Q.
Sentence 7: I think it is a swell idea.
Sentence 8: I hope you charge them enough.
Sentence 9: Q.
Sentence 10: The question is who is on exhibit?
Sentence 11: (Laughter)
Q. Comedy, is it?
Sentence 12: THE PRESIDENT: No, melodrama.
Sentence 13: Q.
Sentence 14: Each might bring you a souvenir.
Sentence 15: Q.
Sentence 16: If it's educational and charitable it's tax-free.
Sentence 17: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 18: Yes, yes.
MR. DONALDSON: All in.
Sentence 19: THE PRESIDENT: I have enough to keep you busy for three or four hours.
Sentence 20: The first is the signing of the order this morning creating the Office of Price Administration and Civilian Supply, under the Office for Emergency Management, to be headed by Mr.
Sentence 21: [Leon] Henderson.
Sentence 22: This has been worked out with the approval of O.P.M. It continues and emphasizes the protection of the consumer, and it provides for programs to allocate what we call residual supply of materials among the competing civilian demands-
Sentence 23: I would say what we call the consumer- after the military requirements are satisfied.
Sentence 24: It—among other things—it merges the existing offices under the National Defense Advisory Commission of seven- the old one—it merges two of those offices and in effect puts them together using the staffs of those two offices.
Sentence 25: One is Mr. Henderson's office of Price Stabilization, and the other is Miss
Sentence 26: [Harriet] Elliott's office of Consumer Protection—puts those two together.
Sentence 27: Well, that means essentially out of the original organization which of course was a temporary one—to get things started- out of those seven original offices, five have now been consolidated and it leaves only two out of the original seven-
Sentence 28: the Agriculture Division and the Transportation Division—which have not yet been consolidated into the larger picture; and we are now studying exactly where those two would fit in the developed picture.
Sentence 29: In other words, whether they would come in under the Office for Emergency Management, or whether they would work in through other agencies of the Government.
Sentence 30: In this Order there are a great many statutes that are referred to.
Sentence 31: It is a technical matter, but if anything occurs to you on reading the Order—to what all these section references are—Leon will have a statement or explanation of what the older statutes are.
Sentence 32: I think that about covers it.
Sentence 33: I don't think there is any use in going into detail.
Sentence 34: Q. Would you give us about a paragraph on what the Office for Emergency Management is, who is on it, and what its function is?
Sentence 35: THE PRESIDENT
Sentence 36: Well, very simple—when the Reorganization Act was put through, there were authorized several organizations under the Executive Office of the President, because they did not fit in anywhere else.
Sentence 37: In other words, they referred to a good many different branches of the Government, such for example as the Bureau of the Budget.
Sentence 38: Beforehand it had been more or less under the Treasury, but of course that was not right because they have to pass on the Treasury estimates.
Sentence 39: So, they were made an independent Office in the Executive Office of the President.
Sentence 40: Secondly, there was the National Resources Planning Board, which of course again touches a great many different departments, and then there was authorized at that time an emergency office in the Office of the President, not to be set up until and unless needed, and that was called the Office for Emergency Management.
Sentence 41: Now, under the Office for Emergency Management we set up the O.P.M., and now we are setting up this new organization; and there may be others, we can't tell.
Sentence 42: Q. Mr. President, when Mr. Henderson's organization arrives at a conclusion or determination as to a price or priority, will he have authority to enforce it?
Sentence 43: Is that made clear in the Order?
Sentence 44: THE PRESIDENT: As far as the laws go.
Sentence 45: Q. Is that included in these. . .
Sentence 46: Q. (interposing) Mr. President, how far does —
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) In other words, until you have read the Order, I don't think there is any use talking about it.
Sentence 47: Q. Will Mr. Henderson continue on the S.E.C.?
Sentence 48: THE PRESIDENT: As far as I know. . . .
Sentence 49: Q. Mr. President, have you seen the sections of the proposed murals for the new War Department Building?
Sentence 50: They have been delivered here presumably.
Sentence 51: Have you?
Sentence 52: THE PRESIDENT: No, no.
Sentence 53: I would like to see them very much.
Sentence 54: Is there any scandal about them?
Sentence 55: (Laughter)
Sentence 56: Q.
Sentence 57: I haven't seen them either.
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT: Not yet.
Sentence 59: Q. Mr. President, a story has been printed again that Secretary Perkins has turned in her resignation.
Sentence 60: Is that true?
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT: Just another story.
Sentence 62: It has been going on for eight years, so it's all right.
Sentence 63: Q. Mr. President, is there any question of transferring more destroyers to Britain at this time?
Sentence 64: THE PRESIDENT: No. no.
Sentence 65: Then, number two.
Sentence 66: Are you ready for number two?
Sentence 67: We are going to do a little jumping now.
Sentence 68: I have signed the Act, or rather the Joint Resolution—S. J. Resolution 7, affirming and approving non-recognition of the transfer of any geographic region in this hemisphere from one non-American power to another non-American power, and providing for consultation with other American Republics, in the event that such transfers should appear likely.
Sentence 69: You are all familiar with that.
Sentence 70: It has been duly signed and is now a law.
Sentence 71: You are familiar with the Danish agreement that was entered into.
Sentence 72: You know the reasons for it.
Sentence 73: You know the fact that Greenland is considered very definitely part of the Western Hemisphere and has the same status, both under the Monroe Doctrine and the various agreements that have been made by the American Republics, as at other places, such as Martinique, Guadeloupe, British Guiana, Trinidad, and so forth and so on.
Sentence 74: This Resolution of the Senate affirms that as the American policy.
Sentence 75: Q. Mr. President, does that imply that there is any consultation necessary with the American Republics with respect to Greenland?
Sentence 76: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 77: They all know about it.
Sentence 78: Then, two proclamations, along the same general question of war.
Sentence 79: The first is the proclamation of a state of war between Germany and Italy on the one side and Yugoslavia on the other.
Sentence 80: The other is the proclamation which revokes the combat area previously set forth and covering the mouth of the Red.
Sentence 81: Sea and the Gulf of Aden.
Sentence 82: At that time the original proclamation did not cover the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden in so many words, but it set up a small—what you might call a Arabian "stopper" from the eastern-most tip of Africa to the coast.
Sentence 83: In other words, you could go into the Red Sea without going through that area, and that area has now been revoked as a combat area, in effect making the Gulf of Aden and the Red Sea open to commerce like any other non-combat zone.
Sentence 84: Q. Mr. President, in that connection, may I ask will the ships be permitted to go up to the Suez Canal?
Sentence 85: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 86: I just said that you have taken the "stopper" out.
Sentence 87: Q.
Sentence 88: Yes, yes.
Sentence 89: Well, then, they can go out?
Sentence 90: THE PRESIDENT: I have just said they have taken the "stopper"out.
Sentence 91: Q. Is the Suez Canal now in a declared combat zone?
Sentence 92: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Q.
Sentence 93: No?
THE PRESIDENT: No.
Sentence 94: Not the Canal itself.
Sentence 95: Q.
Sentence 96: Not the Canal itself?
Sentence 97: Could you tell us whether or not the combat zone begins at the eastern Mediterranean there, at the beginning there?
Sentence 98: THE PRESIDENT: It covers the Mediterranean.
Sentence 99: Q. Do you think, sir, that they could go as far as Port Said, for instance?
Sentence 100: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know.
Sentence 101: I haven't got a large-scale map here.
Sentence 102: I don't think it is a very practical question.
Sentence 103: I think they could go.
Sentence 104: Q. Mr. President—
THE PRESIDENT: (continuing)—through Ismailia.
Sentence 105: Q. I am not quite clear on the law.
Sentence 106: When that combat zone is revoked American ships can carry anything into the—?
Sentence 107: THE PRESIDENT: (interposing)
Sentence 108: What are the high seas?
Sentence 109: What are the high seas?
Sentence 110: The high seas are everything except things in the combat zone.
Sentence 111: Q. Mr. President—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) In other words, the high seas.
Sentence 112: What is Buenos Aires?
Sentence 113: Q. Mr. President, I think there has been some confusion as to whether or not an American ship, with this revocation of the former order, can carry war materials destined for a belligerent through that area.
Sentence 114: THE PRESIDENT: No, not for a belligerent, but for a neutral power.
Sentence 115: Q.
Sentence 116: They can take it to Egypt, for instance?
Sentence 117: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 118: Yes. . . .
Sentence 119: Q. Mr. President, on this combat zone—does it mean that American ships carrying goods to neutrals may traverse the Suez Canal?
Sentence 120: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 121: Well, I just said it isn't really a practical question.
Sentence 122: The Suez Canal, in the first place, is in Egypt, and the two ports—I will have to teach you geography, Paul
Sentence 123: [Leach].
Sentence 124: I will have to learn some geography myself.
Sentence 125: Port Said is, as I remember it, at the Mediterranean end, and I think it is called Ismailia that is at the other end, and I think there is a railroad along the Canal between those two places.
Sentence 126: Now, I haven't the faintest idea as to whether a ship would go through the Canal in order to discharge at Port Said, or would go alongside of Ismailia, and the stuff go across the Isthmus by rail.
Q.
Sentence 127: The Mediterranean would remain out of bounds?
Sentence 128: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 129: Oh, yes.
Sentence 130: I am not fully familiar with geography to be able to tell you off hand whether the individual dock at Port Said is in the Mediterranean, or whether it is in the Canal you see.
Sentence 131: I don't know.
Sentence 132: Never been there.
Sentence 133: Q. Ismailia is in Egypt, is that right?
Sentence 134: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 135: Yes, yes.
Sentence 136: Q.
Sentence 137: And that is a neutral country at which we can deliver supplies there?
Sentence 138: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 139: Yes, yes.
Sentence 140: Q. Under the Neutrality Act, sir, no supplies ultimately destined for any belligerent could be delivered to a neutral country for transshipment, could they?
Sentence 141: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know.
Sentence 142: That brings up other questions of international law.
Sentence 143: I would hesitate very much to say yes or no on that.
Sentence 144: You get things like a continuous voyage- and if you will read John Bassett Moore's five volumes you will find the House has been on all four sides of that subject. . . .
Sentence 145: Q. Would that question be explored in connection with this new proclamation opening up?
Sentence 146: THE PRESIDENT: I don't think so—we don't buy headaches unless we have to. . . .
