Sentence 1: 1941 Press Conference 1

MR.
Sentence 2: WOOTON
Sentence 3: [Mr. Paul Wooton, President of National Conference of Business Paper Editors]: Mr. President, I thought that since you have this group here, and behind these men are several hundred thousands of readers, that you might like to say just the sort of editorial they could write, or what kind of an article they might run, that would be most helpful in forwarding the defense program.
Sentence 4: They are all anxious to do something constructive, and they go to the key men in industry in the papers, and if you have any thought at all that would be helpful along that line, I know they would appreciate it.
Sentence 5: THE PRESIDENT: I think you can't overstress the seriousness of the present situation.
Sentence 6: I think it does need stressing, because we all know that this world situation, if it goes the wrong way -the Axis powers win—it is going to hit business far more than any one thing that has ever hit them.
Sentence 7: It will hit them far worse than a mere ending of all of these emergency orders, because it will mean that you will get "put in a vise," not by our own volition, or the volition of all the democratic Nations that have an economy that is somewhat similar to ours.
Sentence 8: We will get "put in a vise," a "strait jacket," by the Axis powers; and I don't think that the seriousness of that situation can be overestimated.
Sentence 9: I think it ought to be played up all the time.
Sentence 10: And furthermore, that if we are going to meet the situation as it develops, and as it is becoming increasingly serious, that we have got to quit all this silly business of "business as usual."
Sentence 11: The Nations that are actually at war certainly are not conducting "business as usual," and the more we help to defeat the control of the world by dictatorships, the less "business as usual" we are going to have.
Sentence 12: It means giving up, of course, on the part of the American public, and therefore of the manufacturers of the country-the businessmen of the country—a great many things which were all very nice and pleasant in our normal lives, and substitute for them the things that are necessary to carry on this aid to the democracies that we are giving at the present time.
Sentence 13: Well, it is going to hit a lot of people, sure, but you can't eat your cake and have it too.
Sentence 14: That is the message to give to the American people: "You can't eat your cake and have it too."
Sentence 15: If you do one thing you have got to go all out for it.
Sentence 16: If you are going to do the other thing— lie down and take it on the chin—it will be putting us in a strait jacket that we won't get out of for one hundred years.
Sentence 17: I think that should be told quite frankly to the public.
Sentence 18: After all, the country can get on without a great many things that it uses normally.
Sentence 19: Is it worth while to give up certain things in order to carry through an effort to survive, or isn't it?
Sentence 20: We know that there is a very great lack of understanding at the present time of the seriousness of the world situation as it affects us.
Sentence 21: You take, for example, a great deal of this perfectly well-intended publicity has been stupid.
Sentence 22: I begged them when they started the so-called Aid to Britain movement—I said, "You know there are an awful lot of people in this country that don't personally 'give a continental' about Aid to Britain, but on the other hand, if you tell the whole sentence you get people to understand."
Sentence 23: What is the whole sentence?
Sentence 24: "America First Through Aid to Britain."
Sentence 25: Now that's a very different thing; that tells the truth.
Sentence 26: You are working for America first, because England today is holding the line and is doing practically all the fighting.
Sentence 27: Now the real sentence is, "Let us keep America going by giving aid to Britain while we are arming ourselves," and that is the thought to get across.
Sentence 28: And I think you can all help tremendously to make people realize the seriousness of the situation, and eliminate a lot of the perfectly silly prejudices that exist today because of wrong slogans—literally, the wrong slogans.
Sentence 29: I suppose, for example, that if there is any person in the United States who happens to be the leader of the America First movement, it is the unfortunate fellow who happens to have the responsibility—who happens to be President of the United States.
Sentence 30: He is the leader of the America First movement.
Sentence 31: Now these other fellows jumped, and nobody's printed the fact that they have grabbed off something that does not belong to them. . .
Sentence 32: .
Sentence 33: We are all pretty well agreed that these are times not to make large profits, and we have to go back in working things like that out.
Sentence 34: We have a curious situation.
Sentence 35: I notice one or two- the best friends that I have in the world- are very large stockholders, and I will give you an illustration—in the Coca-Cola Company.
Sentence 36: There are some of the original people that went in, and they went in with what to them was an awful lot of capital—ten thousand dollars- and today on that original investment of ten thousand dollars figure out the percentage on that investment that they are getting in the way of dividends.
Sentence 37: And yet, under the present tax laws mind you, that happens to be, of course, one shining example under the present tax law—Coca-Cola—you take the average they would get during the previous five years.
Sentence 38: They don't pay any excess taxes on—what?—a thousand percent of profit, yet that is an awfully big profit on an original amount of capital that they put in.
Sentence 39: On the other hand, you take some other organization like United States Steel.
Sentence 40: Taking it over a period of ten years the yield to the individual who bought United States Steel common is not high, while they are hit today because the average of their earnings this year is way ahead of the average—above the average of the last five years.
Sentence 41: They are paying enormous excess profits, but it is hitting the fellow who made the investment in United States Steel.
Sentence 42: He is lucky if on the average of the past ten years he has made four or five percent on his money. . . .
Sentence 43: Well I think—I think that, taking it by and large, business as a whole is going along awfully well in this whole thing, and we are having very, very few complaints.
Sentence 44: I was talking the other day to one of those people who had been largely responsible for the great effort of 1917 and 1918, and there were three of the fairly top people who were running the war production of the country, which began, mind you, not until the day we got into the war in 1917.
Sentence 45: There had been a certain amount done in the way of orders from the British and the French before we got into the war, but the great volume of orders came after we got into the war with no preparation for it.
Sentence 46: To these three people I asked the straight question: "How does the speed of our present production effort, on a relative basis, compare with the speed from the sixth of April, 1917, to the sixth of April, 1918?"
Sentence 47: And all three of them—although they are not in this year responsible for this production as they were then—all three of them said, "You are way ahead of what had been done in the first year of the World War."
Sentence 48: I said, "How far?"
Sentence 49: They agreed about three months ahead in the first twelve months of effort.
Sentence 50: Well, now, that is quite a record to have that admitted by three fellows who were responsible for the 1917 effort.
Sentence 51: MR.
Sentence 52: WOOTON:
Sentence 53: It certainly is.
Sentence 54: THE PRESIDENT: I think that is a pretty good compliment to pay to American business.
Sentence 55: I really do.
Sentence 56: MR. WOOTON:
Sentence 57: And that is the text of these editorials that industry by and large is doing-
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing)
Sentence 58: Yes.
Sentence 59: MR. WOOTON:—a breath-taking job.
Sentence 60: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 61: That's right.
Sentence 62: Of course, there are an awful lot of things that-
Sentence 63: oh, what will I say?- interpretative writers some people call them- columnists some people call them.
Sentence 64: (Laughter)
Sentence 65: They are not fair to business, not fair to government, either one.
Sentence 66: I will give you a very good example.
Sentence 67: Somebody came out the other day with a story that we are way behind where we ought to be on the production of tanks.
Sentence 68: Tanks are needed.
Sentence 69: They are needed by the British in Egypt, in England, all over the place.
Sentence 70: We need them also, and yet we are way, way behind.
Sentence 71: We have only just begun turning out a few tanks.
Sentence 72: Of course, it did not tell the real story, the real story on tanks.
Sentence 73: It is not their fault.
Sentence 74: They put the thing down on paper without checking.
Sentence 75: Now, on tanks, what happened?
Sentence 76: Last year, about last summer, from about the end of May on up to July, when they were working out the priorities, that is to say, the classification that these orders would go into, we needed to make four main divisions of production.
Sentence 77: One was airplanes, of course, and another was guns—anti-tank guns and all other kinds of guns.
Sentence 78: A third was ammunition—I would say powder and shot and shell.
Sentence 79: And the fourth was tanks.
Sentence 80: And we couldn't give an A-1 priority to all four groups because it would have slowed up the whole program group if we had given equal priority to all four groups.
Sentence 81: So the military people were called in, and the British were called in, and we said to them, from the production point of view, one at least of these groups has got to be put in the second category.
Sentence 82: Now, we fellows were laymen—businessmen—and the Army and the Navy and the British said, '.'Well, about the last thing we need today is tanks."
Sentence 83: They didn't see the need at that time for tanks.
Sentence 84: Now, that is the best possible opinion that we could get, so out of those four groups we put the tank group into the second priority category- deliberately- on military advice- which we have to go on.
Sentence 85: Now, of course, everybody is cussing out the tank manufacturers, and cussing out the Government for being behind.
Sentence 86: Well, that is just an illustration of how you have to know all of the surrounding facts before you can write intelligently on some particular thing that you hear.
Sentence 87: I think it is probably a good illustration.
Sentence 88: MR.
Sentence 89: WOOTON:
Sentence 90: It certainly is.
Sentence 91: Well, Mr. President—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing)
Sentence 92: It's good to see you all.
MR.
Sentence 93: WOOTON:
Sentence 94: I think it's mighty fine of you to see us, and in behalf of these editors, I thank you very, very much.
Sentence 95: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 96: If there's anything we can do to help, let us know.
Sentence 97: MR.
Sentence 98: WOOTON:
Sentence 99: Thank you, Mr. President.
