Sentence 1: 1941 Excerpts From The Press Conference 45

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: Steve
Sentence 3: [Early] says there isn't anything—any formality, or anything to talk about today.
Sentence 4: Q. Mr. President, three strong speeches were made yesterday by three Cabinet officers—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) Three?
Sentence 5: Q. Yes, Secretary Hull, Secretary Knox, and Secretary Wickard.
Sentence 6: THE PRESIDENT: Oh, is that so?
Q. (continuing) About possible advances in foreign policy, and greater aid and more initiative, etc.
Sentence 7: Would you comment, sir, on this?
Sentence 8: THE PRESIDENT: I think they speak for themselves pretty clearly:and for the great majority of the American people.
Sentence 9: Q.
Sentence 10: And also for you, sir?
Sentence 11: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 12: Yes, yes.
Sentence 13: Q. Mr. President, the newspapers this morning generally seem to regard these speeches as indicating that it may soon be necessary to resort to an extended use of the Navy in protecting the "bridge of ships."
Sentence 14: Would you consider that a fair interpretation of the speeches?
Sentence 15: THE PRESIDENT: I don't think that we had better talk about interpretations.
Sentence 16: I think we had better confine ourselves to facts, and I am sorry, but I have to make a liar out of a lot of people—some of them in this room.
Sentence 17: What—I will tell you how.
Sentence 18: In September, 1939, about a year and a half ago, the whole subject of hemisphere defense came up, as we know.
Sentence 19: And at that time, because of the conditions surrounding the outbreak of the war—in other words, a complete failure to adhere to international law, a surprise invasion, which was followed by other surprise attacks on peaceful Nations—at that time there was instituted by the Western Hemisphere what is known as a patrol, and that patrol extended on all sides of the hemisphere as necessary at the time.
Sentence 20: Of course, nobody here knows geography.
Sentence 21: People said it was 300 miles off-shore.
Sentence 22: It wasn't.
Sentence 23: It was a patrol that was carried out partly by the American Navy, partly by other American ships, off what was then considered a reasonable limit, depending on where it was.
Sentence 24: A lot of very careless people called it 300 miles.
Sentence 25: If you went over to the eastern shore of Maryland, you would have found for the past year and a half that that patrol was extended a thousand miles out to sea at that point.
Sentence 26: It was maintained as a patrol for such distances as seemed advisable, in view of the conditions at the time.
Sentence 27: That patrol has been extended from time to time in different places.
Sentence 28: Some places it has been pulled in, depending entirely on the conditions and the locations on any given duty.
Sentence 29: That was a patrol.
Sentence 30: It was nota convoy.
Sentence 31: I think some of you know what a horse looks like.
Sentence 32: I think you also know what a cow looks like.
Sentence 33: If, by calling a cow a horse for a year and a half, you think that that makes the cow a horse, I don't think so.
Sentence 34: Now, that's pretty plain language.
Sentence 35: You can't turn a cow into a horse by calling it something else; calling it a horse it is still a cow.
Sentence 36: Now this is a patrol, and has been a patrol for a year and a half, still is, and from time to time it has been extended, and is being extended, and will be extended—the patrol- for the safety of the Western Hemisphere.
Sentence 37: Q. Could you tell us, sir, how far it may possibly go?
Sentence 38: THE PRESIDENT: That is exactly the question I hoped you would ask.
Sentence 39: As far on the waters of the seven seas as may be necessary for the defense of the American hemisphere.
Sentence 40: Q. Mr. President—
Q. (interposing) Will there be any extension of its functions?
Sentence 41: THE PRESIDENT: No, no.
Sentence 42: Q. Could you define its functions?
Sentence 43: THE PRESIDENT: Its function is protection of the American hemisphere.
Sentence 44: Q. By belligerent means?
Sentence 45: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 46: Protection of the American hemisphere.
Sentence 47: Q. Mr. President, does that include the protection of shipping, that is —
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) Protection of the American hemisphere.
Sentence 48: Q. Mr. President, just what—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing)
Sentence 49: Now you can't —.
Sentence 50: Just what?
Sentence 51: What do you mean, just what?
Sentence 52: [No answer] The point of it is the protection of the American hemisphere, and will be so used as it has been for the past year and a half.
Sentence 53: Now I can't tell you what is going to happen.
Sentence 54: Q. Mr. President, can you tell us the difference between a patrol and a convoy?
Sentence 55: THE PRESIDENT: You know the difference between a cow and a horse?
Sentence 56: Q.
Sentence 57: Yes, I know the difference.
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT: All right, there is just as much difference.
Sentence 59: Just exactly as much difference.
Sentence 60: Q. Is there more patrolling against—
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 61: The point is the protection of the merchant convoy-the escorting of merchant ships in a group to prevent an act of aggression against that group of merchant ships under escort.
Sentence 62: A patrol is a reconnaissance—I think that is the word—of certain areas of ocean to find out whether there is any possibly aggressive ship within that area, or areas, or the whole of the ocean, which might be coming toward the Western Hemisphere, or into the Western Hemisphere.
Sentence 63: Now one thing that will occur to you as being, just as you say, a rule of common sense—back there in 1939 the area of the patrol on the Atlantic was nearer, because there didn't seem to be any danger of an attack on places like Bermuda or Newfoundland, or Greenland, or Trinidad, or Brazil.
Sentence 64: The events, however, in the later period of the war show that such attack is more possible today than it was then.
Sentence 65: We have, incidentally, some rather valuable American lives and American property at various points that we didn't have in 1939.
Sentence 66: Again Greenland, Newfoundland, Bermuda, Newfoundland, Bermuda, and the obligation that we have under the Monroe Doctrine for the protection of Canada against any other non-American Nation.
Sentence 67: That's old stuff.
Sentence 68: Then you have got other islands, the Bahamas, Antigua, and all the West Indies, Trinidad, British Guiana, which were not an American possession a year and a half ago.
Sentence 69: Today they are.
Sentence 70: Those bases, those points—
Q. (interposing) Mr. President—
THE PRESIDENT: (continuing)
Sentence 71: It's a little bit like what I was talking about to one of the Senators over the telephone today.
Sentence 72: He happened to come from the West, and it's rather a good simile.
Sentence 73: In the old days a wagon train across the plains—of course it had its immediate guard around it, that was perfectly true—but it didn't go—it didn't move across the plains unless it got reports from a long ways—200 to 300 miles off.
Sentence 74: It was not felt safe to wait until the Indians got two miles away before you saw them.
Sentence 75: It was advisable, if possible, to find out if the Indians were 200 miles away.
Sentence 76: Q. Mr. President—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing)
Sentence 77: I think the simile probably is a useful one.
Sentence 78: Q. Mr. President, if this patrol should discover some apparently aggressive ships headed toward the Western Hemisphere, what would it do about it?
Sentence 79: THE PRESIDENT: Let me know.
Sentence 80: (Loud laughter)
Sentence 81: Q. Mr. President, has this Government any idea of escorting convoys?
Sentence 82: THE PRESIDENT: No, no, and that, I am afraid, will be awfully bad news to some of you.
Sentence 83: Q. Is there any better plan?
Sentence 84: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 85: What?
Sentence 86: Q. Has it any better system?
Sentence 87: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 88: Well, you remember Mr. Bairnsfather.
Sentence 89: [English cartoonist in World War I, whose celebrated character Old Bill said to his worried friend in a shell-hole, "If you know a better 'ole, go to it."]
Q. Mr. President, to some of us who read those speeches of the Cabinet officers, they seem to be concerned about the delivery of aid to Britain.
Sentence 90: How does this tie in with that?
Sentence 91: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know, it's a new one on me. . . .
Sentence 92: Q. Mr. Secretary, could you tell us—(Loud laughter) could you tell us whether these patrol ships have any instructions as to the action they should take, in the event there was an attack in nearby—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) I can't tell you where they are because the next question would be just where are they, and just where are they going tomorrow.
Sentence 93: You see?
Sentence 94: Q. Mr. President, does this extension of patrol involve an}, revision of the so-called Pan-American Security Zone?
Sentence 95: THE PRESIDENT: No, no.
Sentence 96: Q.
Sentence 97: No connection?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 98: No.
Sentence 99: Q.
Sentence 100: Mr. President, are we doing anything special, with any—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) Just an extension.
Sentence 101: After all, it's just what has been going on for a year and a half.
Sentence 102: Now, that will answer all your questions. . . .
Sentence 103: CONSTANTINE BROWN:
Sentence 104: Mr. President, last week you said that people in this country are not quite aware of the gravity of the situation.
Sentence 105: Would you care to amplify that a little bit?
Sentence 106: THE PRESIDENT: I don't think so, Constantine, without some further thought about it beforehand.
Sentence 107: Perhaps I could put it as one little thought to throw out.
Sentence 108: There are people in this country, I am sorry to say I can't recognize any faces here, but some in this room- who are adopting a rather curious attitude, which I should say hadn't been thought through.
Sentence 109: These people say out of one side of the mouth, "No, I don't like it, I don't like dictatorship," and then out of the other side of the mouth, "Well, it's going to beat democracy, it's going to defeat democracy, therefore I might just as well accept it."
Sentence 110: Now, I don't call that good Americanism.
Sentence 111: I am not mentioning any names but that attitude is held by a minority in this country.
Sentence 112: It's just the same way—I read an editorial on Monday, or something like that the other day—which said in effect, Why, we have always had conquerors all through the history of the world, and Alexander the Great who tried to conquer all the known world, he was not satisfied to stay at home—where was it, Macedonia?-he went out and tried to conquer lots of people he never saw before, just to add to his empire.
Sentence 113: He was not satisfied with his own people, his own flesh and blood.
Sentence 114: And there was another fellow called Caesar.
Sentence 115: He was not satisfied with the Rome of his day, and went out to conquer the whole of Europe and North Africa, and the Near East, and so forth and so on.
Sentence 116: And then there were, according to this mentality—there were two other conquerors—one was Cromwell, who conquered England, and the other one was George Washington, who conquered America.
Sentence 117: (Laughter)
Sentence 118: Now, any mentality that lumps George Washington and Cromwell with Caesar and Napoleon—oh, yes, Napoleon—Napoleon and Alexander the Great—well, all I can say is I am awfully sorry that people with those mentalities are in such high places that they can write or talk at all.
Sentence 119: It's just dumb.
Sentence 120: Now, coming back to this mythical person in our midst who takes the attitude that dictatorships are going to win anyway, I think that is almost equally dumb, because I am "agin" them, and everybody else in this country- the overwhelming majority are "agin" them.
Sentence 121: We will fight for the democratic process, and that's all.
Sentence 122: We are willing to fight for the democratic process.
Sentence 123: I don't want to lie down and say, "Dictatorship is inevitable.
Sentence 124: We have got to do the best we can.
Sentence 125: We have got to make our peace.
Sentence 126: We have got to yield to the demands of the dictatorship because it has the military might to win."
Sentence 127: I don't think along those lines, and neither do you. . .
Sentence 128: .
Sentence 129: If you go back to the roster of the Army in the Civil War —we called on people there from liberty-loving people on both sides- both the Confederates and the North; and from outside this country we had people fighting for us because they believed in it.
Sentence 130: On the other hand, the Confederacy and the North let certain people go.
Sentence 131: In other words, in both armies there were—what shall I call them?—there were Vallandighams
Sentence 132: [Ohio's Clement L. Vallandigham, leader of the "Copperheads" in the Civil War].
Sentence 133: Well, Vallandigham, as you know, was an appeaser.
Sentence 134: He wanted to make peace from 1863 on because the North "couldn't win."
Sentence 135: Once upon a time there was a place called Valley Forge and there were an awful lot of appeasers that pleaded with Washington to quit, because he "couldn't win."
Sentence 136: Just because he "couldn't win."
Sentence 137: See what Tom Paine said at that time in favor of Washington keeping on fighting!
Sentence 138: Q. Yes.
Sentence 139: THE PRESIDENT: It's worth reading.
Sentence 140: Q. Wasn't it, "These are the times that try men's souls?
Sentence 141: "
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 142: Yes, that particular paragraph. . . .
