Sentence 1: 1941 Excerpts From The Press Conference 28

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: You will all be asking about the attack of yesterday, so we might as well clear that up first.
Sentence 3: There is nothing to add, except that there was more than one attack, and that it occurred in daylight, and it occurred definitely on the American side of the ocean.
Sentence 4: This time there is nothing more to add except two thoughts I have.
Sentence 5: I heard one or two broadcasters this morning, and I read a few things that have been said by people in Washington, which reminded me of a—perhaps we might call it an allegory.
Sentence 6: Once upon a time, at a place where I was living, there were some school children living out in the country who were on their way to school, and somebody undisclosed fired a number of shots at them from the bushes.
Sentence 7: The father of the children took the position that there wasn't anything to do about it—search the bushes, and take any other steps—because the children hadn't been hit.
Sentence 8: I don't think that's a bad illustration, in regard to the position of some people this morning.
Sentence 9: The destroyer—it is a very, very fortunate thing that the destroyer was not hit in these attacks.
Sentence 10: And I think that is all that can be said on the subject today.
Sentence 11: Q. Mr. President, there is one thing that occurred to me, and I wondered if you could clear that up: Was the identification of our ship solely by that little flag astern, or were there other ships going with this destroyer?
Sentence 12: Were there larger ships that made identification much easier?
Sentence 13: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 14: She was alone at the time, clearly marked.
Sentence 15: Of course an identification number was on her, plus the flag.
Sentence 16: And the fact remains that, as I said before, there was more than one attack.
Sentence 17: Q. Mr. President, does that mean more than one torpedo, or—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) More than one attack.
Sentence 18: Q.
Sentence 19: On the same ship, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT: On the same ship. . . .
Sentence 20: Q. Is there anything to account, sir, for the bad aim?
Sentence 21: Any naval explanation of that?
Sentence 22: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT: That is—that question is a little bit beyond my power to answer. . . .
Sentence 23: Q.
Sentence 24: What did you say, sir, about being on the-
Sentence 25: you said on the American side of the ocean?
Sentence 26: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 27: Yes.
Sentence 28: Q.
Sentence 29: Plainly on the American side?
Sentence 30: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 31: Yes, yes.
Sentence 32: Q.
Sentence 33: As one landlubber to a sea expert, is it at all possible for a submarine commander to make a mistake of identification in broad daylight at that torpedo distance?
Sentence 34: Do you care to answer that?
Sentence 35: THE PRESIDENT: I suppose it could be put this way: If a sub-marine had its periscope up above the surface, do you see, there is no excuse for the wrong identification.
Sentence 36: And, of course, most torpedoes are fired from a visual sight of the objective.
Sentence 37: That means you have got to have your periscope up above the surface.
Sentence 38: There is, of course, another way: As you know, every—almost all Navy ships—German included —or Italian- have listening devices, and they can hear the propellers, or machinery, of the other ships at some distance.
Sentence 39: Therefore, it is physically possible for a submarine to fire at a sound.
Sentence 40: Q. Well, is it accurate?
Sentence 41: THE PRESIDENT: Of course it isn't nearly as accurate as if you see what you are shooting at.
Sentence 42: Q.
Sentence 43: I see.
Sentence 44: Q. Mr. President, how would you class this incident with regard to a shooting war?
Sentence 45: THE PRESIDENT: Oh, well, those are hypothetical questions.
Sentence 46: I said that was all there was to be said about it.
Sentence 47: Q.
Sentence 48: As another landlubber, I would like to ask a question here.
Sentence 49: Is it possible for a destroyer to be on the American side of the Atlantic, and still be within the zone delineated by Mr. Hitler as a belligerent zone?
Sentence 50: THE PRESIDENT: Such a zone—of course, in the first place, we have never been notified of it, and in the second place it was said to be a blockade.
Sentence 51: Well, of course, everybody knows that a blockade is never recognized unless it is effective.
Sentence 52: Q. Mr. President, could you say whether the Greer in promptly firing back, or promptly counterattacking, behaved in accordance with its instructions- in accordance with our policy?
Sentence 53: THE PRESIDENT: Any information to the contrary—.
Sentence 54: What would you do if somebody fired a torpedo at you?
Sentence 55: (Laughter)
Sentence 56: Q. Mr. President, can you say whether there was more than one attacker?
Sentence 57: THE PRESIDENT: More than one attack, I said.
Sentence 58: Q. Mr. President, was the periscope above the water in this case?
Sentence 59: THE PRESIDENT: That I can't talk about at the present time.
Sentence 60: It makes no difference if it was below that they fired at an unknown ship.
Sentence 61: If it was below the water and they fired at an unknown ship, we would make every effort to discover the identity of the ship.
Sentence 62: Well, what would you do, again?
Sentence 63: Q. Mr. President, is any search of bushes being made out there?
Sentence 64: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 65: Yes, yes.
Sentence 66: In other words, I don't go along with the father of those children.
Sentence 67: You might almost say that the school teacher is searching the bushes.
Sentence 68: Q.
Sentence 69: Who is he?
Sentence 70: THE PRESIDENT: (adding) Even where a father wouldn't.
Sentence 71: Q. Mr. President, can you say at this time whether any alteration has been made in orders to the naval vessels?
Sentence 72: THE PRESIDENT: No, no.
Sentence 73: Q.
Sentence 74: You can't say, or it hasn't been —
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 75: No.
Sentence 76: Nothing's been done.
Sentence 77: Q. Going back to this occurrence at sea.
Sentence 78: At one time, if a vessel was attacked they were going to tell poppa.
Sentence 79: They don't do that any more.
Sentence 80: THE PRESIDENT: I know it.
Sentence 81: Isn't that a funny thing?
Sentence 82: (Laughter)
Sentence 83: Q.
Sentence 84: They don't wait for the parent to say, "Go ahead, boys.
Sentence 85: "
THE PRESIDENT: That's right.
Sentence 86: Poppa only gets—I mean the schoolteacher only gets burnt on Tuesday afternoon and Friday morning.
Sentence 87: (Laughter)
Sentence 88: Q. Mr. President, what is the schoolteacher going to do if they find this marauder?
Sentence 89: What can be done?
Sentence 90: Seriously, can you discuss that?
Sentence 91: THE PRESIDENT: I suppose eliminate him.
Sentence 92: Try to.
Sentence 93: Q.
Sentence 94: That's the idea.
Sentence 95: THE PRESIDENT: "Eliminate" is a reasonably good word.
Sentence 96: Q.
Sentence 97: I am confused as to who is the schoolteacher.
Sentence 98: THE PRESIDENT: I am the schoolteacher.
Sentence 99: Call "poppa" some of these people that are saying, "Forget it.
Sentence 100: The children were not hit.
Sentence 101: "
Q. Mr. President, what were the conditions of light? . . .
Sentence 102: THE PRESIDENT: Daylight.
Sentence 103: Q. Good daylight?
Sentence 104: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 105: Oh yes.
Sentence 106: Q.
Sentence 107: No fog?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 108: Good visibility.
Sentence 109: Put it that way.
Sentence 110: Q. How about it?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 111: Now, let's see, what else have we got?
Sentence 112: Oh, yes, here's one thing I want to talk to you about, because I think it's a pretty good illustration. . . .
Sentence 113: I suppose we had better make this off the record entirely, not even background, because it is something between us.
Sentence 114: Several months ago, the Malaya came into New York Harbor on Sunday morning, in broad daylight.
Sentence 115: Well, Frank Knox was talking to some of you over at the Department about not publishing ship movements, and they did a stupid thing in having the Malaya come in, and five million people see it.
Sentence 116: And there were certain newspapers in this country who said, "Why should we live up to the request of the Secretary of the Navy about ship movements?
Sentence 117: Everybody knows it—a lot of people see ships moving around.
Sentence 118: "
And it was explained very carefully at that time that if there were German spies in this country, and everything is published in the newspapers, all the "head fellow" has to do is to sit at his desk and read all about everything from the papers.
Sentence 119: He doesn't have to hire anybody.
Sentence 120: He gets the whole thing right there.
Sentence 121: In other words, all he is is a clipping bureau.
Sentence 122: And he is able to receive the information at no cost which he gets through the American press.
Sentence 123: Well, we all understood that at that time.
Sentence 124: And since that particular episode, there have been a lot of British, and some Canadian, and some other ships that have come in here for repairs, and the press has been just one thousand per cent good about it.
Sentence 125: They have been perfectly fine in not listing these ships.
Sentence 126: Well, we all knew that the Illustrious was down at Norfolk, and we didn't say a word about it, except a few—one or two types of papers—until this young fellow Mountbatten went down the other day, and the Navy Department said it was perfectly all right, so long as it had been general knowledge for several months, to mention the fact that the Illustrious is at Norfolk.
Sentence 127: Now, when it comes down to the other question of the turnout of certain supplies, like planes, if we give out a monthly statement, the German fellow behind the desk can get it all from the paper.
Sentence 128: And as you know, we have given it out through the O.P.M. on planes, but we haven't given out other figures on things like depth charges, and machine guns, and so forth and so on.
Sentence 129: It has been pretty well kept.
Sentence 130: Yesterday I had a very interesting talk with the Attorney General, and Edgar Hoover, and they showed me—I have it in my hand—some German information—that is to say it's a German request of some of the German agents in this country, showing that things that you and I know about are still not in the possession of the German Government, except through very careful search- in other words, the hiring of spies to find out what the production is, and where it's going.
Sentence 131: They have sent out certain requests to their agents in this country—asking for a breakdown of the total number of airplanes produced during a given month; how many of this type of pursuit plane; how many of that type; how many this type of bomber; how many the other type of bomber; how many training planes.
Sentence 132: And then a second series of questions sent to all their agents: Where are they going?
Sentence 133: What is the destination of these planes?
Sentence 134: Is it American Army?
Sentence 135: Is it Great Britain?
Sentence 136: Is it Canada?
Sentence 137: Is it Africa?
Sentence 138: Is it Near East?
Sentence 139: Is it the Far East?
Sentence 140: They all want to know.
Sentence 141: And from our point of view, I think we all recognize that if we hand out all this information every month, not only planes but tanks, and so forth and so on, it makes the German information task vastly easier.
Sentence 142: And that is why the question is an important one.
Sentence 143: It helps Germany, if we give out all the details and figures.
Sentence 144: Now I am not shutting down on certain totals at this time, but the question is going to arise as soon as we know that the increase in planes during the month of August was about-what was it?—390?
Sentence 145: Q. Three hundred ninety-four.
Sentence 146: THE PRESIDENT: Three hundred ninety-four—four hundred planes more than the previous month.
Sentence 147: Now there are a lot of people who know they can get the stuff around, fairly well, even to the breakdown.
Sentence 148: You can probably—by snooping around in a perfectly legitimate way—get that breakdown, find out how many planes there were of different types, how many training planes; how many big bombers; how many small bombers, etc.
Sentence 149: And if it is published it is going to be of definite aid to the Axis powers.
Sentence 150: Now, there is no particular reason why those figures could not properly be given to the Committees of the Congress, with the understanding that they will not be made public.
Sentence 151: Now, off the record that is rather a difficult job, but nevertheless, the legislative branch of the Government is entitled to certain information in working out new appropriations, and if there is any leak from up there, well, it certainly isn't the fault of the administrative branch of the Government.
Sentence 152: Neither would it be the fault of the press, if the press did not publish it, and that is why I am going just to throw out the suggestion at this time- without anything like a formal request—the suggestion that we consider pretty carefully publishing in the press figures of production in this country, on the ground that it would be definitely of aid to the Axis powers.
Sentence 153: O.P.M.'s been giving that out.
Sentence 154: I think probably that the Army ought not to give out any statement about tanks.
Sentence 155: Actually, and again off the record, the number of tanks produced this past month has shown a very, very great rise over the figure of the previous month, and the month before that.
Sentence 156: I think it's a mistake to aid the Axis powers by giving the actual figures.
Sentence 157: Q. Mr. President, could I ask a question while we are off the record?
Sentence 158: I would like to get your opinion on this, because it has been advanced by Senator Byrd and other people, that hold that it is more important to drag this—any deficiency, out in the open, at this stage of procedure, and get it corrected, than it is to keep that kind of information, at this stage, from the Germans.
Sentence 159: Have you-
Sentence 160: what is your idea on that, sir?
Sentence 161: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 162: Well, I think probably that in those cases of the deficiencies you must depend in the first instance on going to the departments concerned to get their figures.
Sentence 163: In other words, being accurate in the first instance, getting the real, actual facts.
Sentence 164: And that is why—I am still off the record—we are talking about improving our information service in two lines.
Sentence 165: First, through the public, and secondly for members of the House and the Senate, so that instead of going to one man, and another man, and getting figures that are based on different facts, different methods—as you always can—they will get something absolutely authoritative from one bureau of the Government—that probably would be Lowell Mellett's Bureau—which would get the figures that everybody could agree on.
Sentence 166: If you go around—I have often used the example—an airplane may come out of a factory, complete so far as that factory is concerned.
Sentence 167: Now, some agency of the Government may very easily put that down as a completed plane.
Sentence 168: All right.
Sentence 169: Now, suppose there are two other steps.
Sentence 170: The factory doesn't put the artillery on the plane, and the plane may sit there without any guns.
Sentence 171: Well, the fellow that is doing the gun work, as soon as he gets the guns onto that plane, he will call it a completed plane.
Sentence 172: And then there is the navigational instrument fellow, and he will, just as soon as he gets his navigational instruments on the plane- he will say the plane's completed.
Sentence 173: But, suppose the plane hadn't got any propeller?
Sentence 174: Now, as soon as the propeller fellow in charge of that has got a propeller on the plane, he calls it complete.
Sentence 175: In other words, we have to have a basis to go on, a criterion as to what is a completed plane.
Sentence 176: And that is why you can get all kinds of different figures, whether you are a member of the Senate or a member of the press.
Sentence 177: And what we are trying to do now is standardize it, and lay down rules as to what is a completed plane.
Sentence 178: Well, that has never been done.
Sentence 179: I think it will help everybody. . . .
Sentence 180: Q. Mr. President, is there some way of figuring a standard of measurement on these things?
Sentence 181: After all, I think the people, certainly the editors and readers, are interested in the comparison.
Sentence 182: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 183: Yes.
Sentence 184: Q.
Sentence 185: They don't remember from one week to another how many planes were produced, but they do want to know about any progress.
Sentence 186: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 187: Yes.
Q. (continuing) Have you been able to work out either a horsepower or gun-power method, in order to show progress, and still not disclose the type of plane?
Sentence 188: Or would it be possible that—after this information is known to all, to make it public?
Sentence 189: We have to guess at figures on bombers because that seems to be the great interest.
Sentence 190: How many of these planes are trainers which come off like Chevrolets; and how many come off are bombers, which are Rolls Royces?
THE PRESIDENT: Of course, that's the information the Germans are crazy to get.
Sentence 191: Q.
Sentence 192: I was just wondering—
THE PRESIDENT: If we could get the thing explained to the American people—I suppose next month I will go on the air and explain it to the American people.
Sentence 193: Let me give you an example: A year ago there was a certain figure that we hoped we would get—had hope we would reach—in other words a line going on up- constantly increased production.
Sentence 194: Well, those were totals.
Sentence 195: Let us say, for example, that instead of putting it in total of airplanes, you put it in total of man-hours.
Sentence 196: Now, that's a much more important thing, and sufficiently difficult to explain, and made infinitely more difficult to explain because there are a whole lot of people- columnists, and so forth- who would want deliberately to leave that end of it out in what they are telling the American people.
Sentence 197: If you have last year's figures that were based on—well, it was considering military needs of the time, and the great bulk of the planes were pursuit planes, fighter planes.
Sentence 198: All right.
Sentence 199: In the last three or four months all the military authorities here, and on the other side, and our observers said, "You are making too many pursuit planes and not enough bombers."
Sentence 200: Right.
Sentence 201: Now a bomber must take some figure- it is not a correct figure because I don't know what the figure is, but a bomber takes, let us say, three times as many man-hours to turn out as a pursuit plane.
Sentence 202: Therefore, Q.E.D., if you have the same number of man-hours, you will turn out only one third in bombers as you would have turned out in pursuit planes.
Sentence 203: Therefore, it throws last year's figures, I suppose, into the discard.
Sentence 204: Now, we are increasing, of course, on our bomber output, but it is only in the last five months that we have been changing over, and there is a certain lag on that change-over, of course.
Sentence 205: You can't simply issue an order Monday and have it start on Tuesday.
Sentence 206: We are not making as many pursuit planes.
Sentence 207: We are making more bombers, but with the same number of man-hours.
Sentence 208: I think people will be able to understand that.
Sentence 209: Q. Mr. President, I think you agree we are up against the problem —
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing)
Sentence 210: Oh sure.
Sentence 211: Q. (continuing) For instance, it may be charged in defense production, that if we can't run these figures, we are using-adopting a partisan attitude on it.
Sentence 212: There is a problem there.
Sentence 213: Do you agree, sir, on the figures, how difficult it is?
Sentence 214: THE PRESIDENT: I do.
Sentence 215: It's a real problem.
Sentence 216: You see, I am not asking anything special, except that you recognize that there is a problem. . . .
