Sentence 1: 1941 Excerpts From The Press Conference 59

Q. Good morning, Mr. President.
Sentence 2: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 3: Good morning.
Sentence 4: How is everybody?
Sentence 5: Did you have a nice ride?
Sentence 6: Q. Indeed.
Sentence 7: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 8: Well, I think after this performance we can put the lid on.
Sentence 9: There should be no further news.
Sentence 10: I am not going to guarantee anything.
Sentence 11: I won't see Mr. Churchill over the week end, or Mr. Mackenzie King, or any other Prime Minister.
Sentence 12: You might play golf, as a suggestion.
Sentence 13: I don't think there is any news.
Sentence 14: Oh yes there is too.
Sentence 15: I entirely forgot.
Sentence 16: I heard about and read that speech by Senator Byrd, giving figures on defense production, and I sent it to the War Department to ask for a check on the figures, and the War Department said that most unfortunately all of the figures, except on planes, are completely inaccurate, and somebody—unfortunately—has misled the Senator.
Sentence 17: But the War Department for obvious reasons can't give out the exact figures, but they gave me certain illustrations on things that they said it's all right to make public, which illustrations are examples of all of the other cases- of figures to use, except airplanes.
Sentence 18: The Senator said that not a single tank had gone to England.
Sentence 19: Actually, we have turned over to the British hundreds of tanks of modern design produced during the last year.
Sentence 20: Some of these tanks, as we all know, are in Egypt, and the papers have had various stories on the excellence of their performance.
Sentence 21: They are with the British in Egypt.
Sentence 22: In the case of anti-aircraft guns, the Senator said the program provides for an average monthly delivery of only four 90-mm. guns a month during the balance of this year.
Sentence 23: The program actually calls for a monthly delivery of 61 for the four remaining months of this year, and the War Department believes that they will be met.
Sentence 24: In other words, there is a certain difference between the figure 4 and the figure 61.
Sentence 25: And another example is the 37-mm. anti-tank gun.
Sentence 26: The Senator said that these guns will be produced only at the rate of 15 a month.
Sentence 27: Actual production in July was 72.
Sentence 28: August production will be 160, September 260, and October 320.
Sentence 29: Q.
Sentence 30: What was the Senator's figure on that, sir?
Sentence 31: THE PRESIDENT: Fifteen.
Sentence 32: There seems to be a certain discrepancy between the figure 15 and the figures that I have just given.
Sentence 33: Even if you add a zero to 15 you would still be way below the actual numbers.
Sentence 34: Fourth, the Senator said that only fifteen 81-mm. mortars will be produced in the immediate months ahead.
Sentence 35: In July there were actually, instead of 15, there were 221 produced, and in August the figure is 340.
Sentence 36: Q. Excuse me, Mr. President, what type of gun was that?
Sentence 37: THE PRESIDENT: Eighty-one-mm. mortar—now you know as much as I do- and the figures for September and October will be even larger than 340, so there would seem to be somewhat of a difference between the figure 15 and the figure 340.
Sentence 38: The figures, of course, on the airplanes, are substantially correct, except that he said that the production of military planes progressively declined in the months of June and July, which is not strictly true.
Sentence 39: The number of training planes increased and the others remained steady—the military planes, because there were certain changes in design, and the testing of the new design to meet lessons that were learned this spring. . . .
Sentence 40: But the fact that remains- that statement as a whole in every single item, except planes, was full of discrepancies that ran just as high as those discrepancies which the War Department says it's all right to mention. . .
Sentence 41: .
Sentence 42: Q. Mr. President, Congressman Fish and Dr. MacCracken of Vassar both addressed recent America First rallies, and Fish has pointed out—has gotten to the point now where he was quoted as saying that if Germany should lose, why America —America would suffer through loss of markets and buying power.
Sentence 43: THE PRESIDENT: If Germany loses?
Q. Yes.
Sentence 44: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 45: So, he thinks we wouldn't lose if Germany won.
Sentence 46: (He laughs)
Sentence 47: I don't think any comment that could be printed is necessary.
Sentence 48: Q. Of course, Dr. MacCracken has taken the point of view that —
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing)
Sentence 49: You know, once upon a time there was a fellow—this you might use only as background—there was a fellow who had a great deal more information and was a much more reasoning person than any of the people- I won't say Fish or MacCracken—it's obvious whom I am talking about.
Sentence 50: His name is Senator Borah—in many ways a very great statesman, and certainly with experience and information that was far better than most of the speakers.
Sentence 51: And he was the gentleman who in July, 1939—the famous conference upstairs—after the Secretary of State, who had still more information than he had, said that, "From our information we really believed regretfully that a war would break out that year," turned to the Secretary of State and said, "I am sorry, Mr. Secretary, my information is better than yours.
Sentence 52: There will be no war this year."
Sentence 53: And yet he had been on the Foreign Relations Committee and everything else, and had been there for years and years—nearly forty years.
Sentence 54: In the Senate he certainly had far more information than any of these people that are going around making speeches today; and of course his error has become a classic.
Sentence 55: Q. Walter Lippmann says that these Senators—the Foreign Relations groups—are people that got us into trouble over a long period of years.
Sentence 56: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 57: Yes, and a good many other people have got us in trouble over a period of years.
Sentence 58: Q.
Sentence 59: Mr. Fish is on the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House.
Sentence 60: Maybe that qualifies him to make a few errors.
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT: I think—off the record—that is probably correct.
Sentence 62: (Laughter). .
Sentence 63: .
Sentence 64: Q. Mr. President, have you heard directly from Mr. Stalin on the proposal of the three-party conference on supplies?
Sentence 65: THE PRESIDENT: You have all the stuff.
Sentence 66: Q. Have you got to the point yet, sir, of naming your commission?'
Sentence 67: THE PRESIDENT: Not yet.
Sentence 68: Q. How soon?
Sentence 69: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know.
Sentence 70: The time hasn't been set.
Sentence 71: Q. Mr. President—
THE PRESIDENT: (continuing)
Sentence 72: The State Department is taking it up all the time.
Sentence 73: Q. Mr. President, off the record, is any written reply called for on that?
Sentence 74: THE PRESIDENT: No, no.
Sentence 75: Off the record, the reply in effect has been made, because when the—this has to be off the record—I think it has been printed.
Sentence 76: I don't know, but there is no use to bring the subject up again.
Sentence 77: It isn't news.
Sentence 78: When the message was delivered by Steinhardt [Laurence A. Steinhardt, U.S. Ambassador to Russia] and Cripps, Mr. Stalin informally thanked them very much for it and then made an oral reply which was taken down, the same thing as a written reply.
Sentence 79: You might call it a formal oral reply, and was taken down by way of what the diplomats would say, an "aidememoire."
Sentence 80: There is no difference between that and a written one.
Sentence 81: Same thing. . .
Sentence 82: .
Sentence 83: Q. Mr. President, on this production matter, do you feel that over-all the production has been satisfactory from a military point of view?
Sentence 84: THE PRESIDENT: It has never been satisfactory.
Sentence 85: Q.
Sentence 86: But it has not lagged behind the program?
Sentence 87: THE PRESIDENT: Behind estimates?
Sentence 88: In some things it is ahead of estimates, and some things behind.
Sentence 89: Of course, that is on the assumption always that the original estimates were right.
Sentence 90: There is always the human possibility that they were too low.
Sentence 91: And there is the possibility in some other cases that they were too high.
Sentence 92: But on the actual estimates the averages were up too.
Sentence 93: I don't think anybody has asked Mr. Knudsen in the last two or three months.
Sentence 94: I should think somebody ought to ask him.
Sentence 95: You remember he talked about airplanes and gave the figure of 85 percent of the estimates.
Sentence 96: Quite a long while ago.
Sentence 97: And what his present estimate is, I don't know, but pretty close to the estimate.
Sentence 98: The original estimate I think was 1,500 planes in—first of July, and they were up to 1,465 as I remember it at that time.
Sentence 99: That is a monthly production. . . .
