Sentence 1: 1941 Excerpts From The Press Conference 60

THE PRESIDENT: The first thing I have is a statement, which you needn't take down.
Sentence 2: Steve sent it down to be put on the mimeograph—one page.
Sentence 3: (Paraphrasing):
"This Government is prepared to send a military mission to China.
Sentence 4: The mission will be sent for the purpose of assisting in carrying out the purposes of the Lease-Lend Act.
Sentence 5: Being organized and will operate under the direction of the Secretary of War.
Sentence 6: The chief will be Brigadier General John Magruder.
Sentence 7: The function of the mission will be to study in collaboration with Chinese and other authorities the military situation in China, and need of Chinese Government for materiel.
Sentence 8: Formulate recommendations regarding types and quantities of items needed; to assist and procure in this country and deliver to China such materiel; to instruct in the use and maintenance of articles thus provided.
Sentence 9: Give advice and suggestions of appropriate character toward making Lend-Lease assistance to China as effective as possible in the interests of the United States, of China, and of the world effort to resistance to movements of conquest by force.
Sentence 10: Sending this mission is in keeping with, and on a parallel line to, sending a similar mission to the Soviet Union.
Sentence 11: The purposes of the two missions are identical.
Sentence 12: "
That is, of course, with the exception of the Lend-Lease Act which does not apply to the Soviet Union.
Sentence 13: (Reading)
"General Magruder has had long experience in China.
Sentence 14: Has twice served there as Military Attaché.
Sentence 15: He will be working on familiar ground, among people he knows well, and to whom he is well known.
Sentence 16: An adequate staff of thoroughly qualified officers will accompany General Magruder.
Sentence 17: "
Q. Mr. President, your announcement says that these men will collaborate with Chinese and "other authorities."
Sentence 18: Can you explain the "other authorities?
Sentence 19: "
THE PRESIDENT: I don't know, but I will make a guess: That it probably applies to the method of getting material to China which might have to go, for example, through Burma.
Sentence 20: That would be other authorities, wouldn't it?
Sentence 21: Q. How about the Russians?
THE PRESIDENT: Same thing.
Sentence 22: Q.
Sentence 23: When would they really leave?
Sentence 24: THE PRESIDENT"
Sentence 25: I think inside of about two weeks. . .
Sentence 26: .
Sentence 27: Q. How soon do you expect to appoint the Russian mission?
Sentence 28: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 29: Soon.
Sentence 30: Q. Nothing unusual in delaying that, is there, Mr. President?
Sentence 31: THE PRESIDENT: No. Not a thing. . . .
Sentence 32: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 33: The only other thing I have got is this.
Sentence 34: We have in the Government an enormous number of papers, which are not archives.
Sentence 35: They are records.
Sentence 36: Well, there is all the difference in the world.
Sentence 37: Archives are supposed to be really tremendously important papers relating to our national history, and rather limited in their total scope.
Sentence 38: On the other hand, there are millions and millions of records which are occasionally looked at, but which are not of general historical importance, but which are of family or genealogical importance.
Sentence 39: For instance, we have, I think, somewhere around three million individual jackets of the Civil War soldiers.
Sentence 40: And the tendency of any department is to hang on.
Sentence 41: It's not merely acquisitive, but it is retentive.
Sentence 42: And here are these three million jackets.
Sentence 43: Now the individual soldiers that served in the Civil War, actually they are referred to about ten a day, that is all.
Sentence 44: In other words, one filing clerk can handle the whole thing and get them out as needed.
Sentence 45: We have public lands records on the development of the great West—as far back as 1820 or 1830— I think the Interior Department has jurisdiction over them.
Sentence 46: There are millions and millions of those and only ten or fifteen of them referred to in the course of the day.
Sentence 47: They are records rather than archives, and what we need is a great records building.
Sentence 48: The Census records, they are dead.
Sentence 49: The Census records going back as far as, I think, 1790.
Sentence 50: Those are records, and they certainly are not archives.
Sentence 51: They ought not to be kept in the building devoted to current administration.
Sentence 52: Now, my thought is that this new War Department building over there would be built on extremely simple lines, and that when this emergency is over, and the War Department reverts to a peacetime status, they will be able to come back here to their regular place in this triangle which we are developing, and that in peacetime this building over there, of two million, or two and a quarter million feet, should be the—I think the word is repository—for the records—the dead records of all these departments.
Sentence 53: I always think of this retentive spirit.
Sentence 54: I went over, in pursuance of this subject—two or three years ago—to the State Department one afternoon- after all the people had gone home—because they assured me that in the State Department over here they only had very current records.
Sentence 55: Nothing more than four or five years old.
Sentence 56: Everything else was stored.
Sentence 57: Well, frankly, I didn't believe it, and I went over there, and I got into a wheel chair, and I wheeled through various rooms, and came to a closed door which had been separated off.
Sentence 58: One of these great doors was opened up, and there was a great, big, long room—oh, I suppose six or eight people had worked there in the course of the day—nobody there, they had all gone home—and along the sides of the room and stacked out into the middle of the room were hundreds of square feet of filing cabinets.
Sentence 59: So at random I said, "Open that one."
Sentence 60: And in there it happened to be a case that was devoted to consular reports of the years 1907 to 1911, on the "History and Future of the Mongolian Pony."
Sentence 61: (Laughter)
Sentence 62: It's very nice, but it wasn't exactly current, or of great importance at that particular time.
Sentence 63: It was a record story, and it ought not to have been in that building, while the State Department was yelling for more space.
Sentence 64: They had it right there.
Sentence 65: So I hope that this new building, when this emergency is over, will be used as a records building for the Government. . . .
Sentence 66: Q. Mr. President, there are rumors that lend-lease has been misused.
Sentence 67: Would you care to comment on those rumors?
Sentence 68: THE PRESIDENT: Where?
Q. There have been printed rumors.
Sentence 69: THE PRESIDENT: I mean—but where?
Q. One of them that I read in a local paper was that the British had run up large bills at a local restaurant—whisky—liquor.
Sentence 70: THE PRESIDENT: Where?
Q.
Sentence 71: The restaurant?
Sentence 72: Occidental Restaurant.
Sentence 73: THE PRESIDENT: I am very certain that that was never charged to lend-lease.
Sentence 74: And I suppose it's a perfectly fair thing to say, in view of these columns—I think it has got to the point where it can be said, in view of your raising the question, that there can be no doubt that there is an organized campaign to spread rumors, distortions of half-truths, and I fear falsehoods—you probably know the word- being launched by certain forces to sabotage the program of aid to opponents of Hitlerism.
Sentence 75: And the column which you quote is probably a very good example of what I am talking about.
Sentence 76: Of course it is perfectly absurd to make any allegations along the lines like that, because they just plain aren't true.
Sentence 77: It is awfully easy to make allegations and they're read all over the country.
Sentence 78: Don't say that it is a denial on my part or on anybody else's part.
Sentence 79: I think it is a perfectly fair thing to say that all stories of that kind are, as I remarked before, vicious rumors, or distortions of fact, or falsehoods.
Sentence 80: Now, in other words, that is not a denial.
Sentence 81: You know my old complaint about things.
Sentence 82: The denial method is awfully easy for the press to use, but the actual fact is that this type of story—in certain types of newspapers —ought to be labeled for what it is, and the story is the labeling of them as falsehoods, and the spreading of rumor for purposes of sabotage rather than the denial.
Sentence 83: Denial does not make any difference one way or the other.
Sentence 84: It's just plain dirty falsehood.
Sentence 85: Might just as well call it by its right name.
Sentence 86: Q. Are you familiar with an article- I think it was published in Time?
Sentence 87: The report of it was that lend-lease money had been utilized by English interests in such a way that the product of this transaction interfered with or competed with American-made goods.
Sentence 88: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 89: Yes.
Sentence 90: Of course, what the origin of it was is this, that they did have—dating back a long time—long before any lend-lease program, or anything like that, where they were trying to build up their own foreign exchange, they had some contracts down there—I think it was the Argentine which required certain steel to carry the contract.
Sentence 91: And in the performance of this contract—it was entered into long before lend-lease—they did deliver the material, which was part steel, in carrying out the contract.
Sentence 92: Now, nobody in their wildest dreams could say that that was selling lend-lease material.
Sentence 93: Q. Was it American steel that they sent down there?
Sentence 94: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 95: No.
Sentence 96: It was their own steel, but of course they imported steel from us. . .
Sentence 97: .
Sentence 98: Q.
Sentence 99: That same kind of thing is coming out with regard to tankers now.
Sentence 100: Stories that the British have tankers in commercial use, which is being picked on in the Senate.
Sentence 101: THE PRESIDENT: Being what?
Sentence 102: Q.
Sentence 103: Well, it's being kicked around in the Senate that the British are using tankers for commercial purposes, while we are not.
Sentence 104: THE PRESIDENT: Of course that is the kind of variation- you have got to tell me where.
Sentence 105: We ran down the other question.
Sentence 106: We said, "Where?" to the person who asked the question about the steel, and we narrowed it down finally and we agreed it was steel to the Argentine.
Sentence 107: I think on the tankers in commercial use, where?
Q.
Sentence 108: They are basing their argument, Mr. President, on total figures of tankers in existence at the start of the war—estimated sinkings according to official figures, and they say that there will be more in commercial service than they have got—more than they need for war use.
Sentence 109: THE PRESIDENT: Of course, that does not hold water, that kind of statement.
Sentence 110: It means nothing.
Sentence 111: When you deduct from total figures you do not know where the rest of it is going.
Sentence 112: Q.
Sentence 113: Can you answer this question?
Sentence 114: Has the British Government asked for—for any more tankers?
Sentence 115: The rumor's out—70 or 100 tankers.
Sentence 116: THE PRESIDENT: I couldn't tell you.
Sentence 117: I can only tell you in terms of merchant ships.
Sentence 118: I think the story was in today's paper about the laying down of more ways for more merchant ships.
Sentence 119: Now some of them may be tankers.
Sentence 120: Q. No.
Sentence 121: This is a statement which came from the Senate anonymously.
Sentence 122: The anonymous Senator said that 70 tankers—I know the story said 100 oil tankers—for carrying oil would be taken from America for British needs.
Sentence 123: Do you happen to know anything about that at all?
Sentence 124: THE PRESIDENT: No, no.
Sentence 125: As a matter of fact, of course, on the oil situation, there are two reasons to believe that in the East this question of domestic oil will be better by spring.
Sentence 126: The two reasons are the fact that there will be a lot more tankers launched and put into commission by then, on the assumption that the sinkings don't increase, and we will have a greater number available; and the second is that the two pipelines will be in use sometime this spring.
Sentence 127: Of course that will help.
Sentence 128: Q. Mr. President, has Judge Rosenman reported to you yet on his study of the O.P.M. and O.P.A.C.S. priorities trouble?
Sentence 129: THE PRESIDENT: We are nearly ready to tell you something.
Sentence 130: The papers are now being worked on.
Sentence 131: And the problem, of course —this particular problem is the problem of priorities.
Sentence 132: And there are a great many factors that enter into priorities.
Sentence 133: There is domestic use, and what is very important is the fact that in addition to domestic use there are other things like South American Good-Neighbor policy and this new Economic Defense Board.
Sentence 134: There is the problem of China, and, I think, equally important, is the problem of working out the use of priorities, putting people to work in industries that have those plants that have to close down, or transfer to other defense projects, or the substitution of other things for the plant itself to make.
Sentence 135: And that is being worked out, so that while there may be, in the next few weeks, a certain amount of hardship, I think to tide it over we will have to use unemployment insurance for a while, until we get the organization perfected so that there will be a little leeway of thirty days or sixty days before any given plant is closed down for lack of materials; and that during those thirty days, or sixty days, the Federal authorities, the State authorities, and the local authorities will all cooperate to put those people to work somewhere else, as near by as possible, or in the same plant on other things. . . .
