Sentence 1: 1941 Excerpts From The Press Conference 77

MR. EARLY: Tremendous conference.
Sentence 2: Q. How are you, Mr. President?
Sentence 3: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 4: Well, fine.
Sentence 5: There's darn little news, except that I haven't finished my speech.
Sentence 6: Q.
Sentence 7: It's going to be pretty late?
Sentence 8: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 9: Pretty nearly finished though.
Sentence 10: That's old stuff (indicating typed sheets be/ore him).
Sentence 11: That's the third draft.
Sentence 12: I am now completing the fifth copy.
Sentence 13: MR. DONALDSON: All in.
Sentence 14: THE PRESIDENT: I don't think I have anything on operations.
Sentence 15: I think—I don't know whether you have had this before.
Sentence 16: There was an attack this morning on Clark Field in the Philippines, resulting in some officer and soldier casualties; and General MacArthur is trying to get further information.
Sentence 17: That was early this morning.
Sentence 18: Q. Have you talked with General MacArthur, sir?
Sentence 19: THE PRESIDENT: Not personally on the telephone.
Sentence 20: He has been telephoning two or three times to the Chief of Staff. . . .
Sentence 21: Q. Mr. President, can you tell us of your discussions with S.P.A.B. this morning?
Sentence 22: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 23: Yes.
Sentence 24: I think I can.
Sentence 25: It was a conference—of course O.P.M. was there also, and several other agencies.
Sentence 26: I should say that there were, you might say, two concurrent policies that were agreed on.
Sentence 27: The first was, on the present program, which is now getting into full production, to go ahead with a speed-up of it.
Sentence 28: Well, that involves, of course, probably working seven days a week, and pushing the speed of the existing program to such an extent that we will get a great many more actual deliveries in the calendar year 1942 than the present program calls for.
Sentence 29: Then the other policy that comes with it is to enter into a still greater expansion of plants, which means new plants and additions to old plants, thereby increasing the total volume of production as fast as that can be attained.
Sentence 30: In other words, a speeding up, and an increase of totals, working toward an all-out effort.
Sentence 31: Of course, a great many other things will form a component part of that phrase—an "all-out effort.
Sentence 32: "
Q. (interposing) Mr. President—
THE PRESIDENT: (continuing) We also talked about certain things called priorities, and as you will see from what I say tonight, there is not at this time any shortage in foodstuffs.
Sentence 33: In other words, there is enough for all of us, and enough left over to help the food situation among those who are fighting against the same evil that we are fighting against.
Sentence 34: On a very large number of articles in normal civilian use, there is also no shortage at the present time for civilian use, or for defense purposes.
Sentence 35: There is, however, for this new program, a very great shortage in most metals, and it seems clear that in putting the program into effect we shall have to do two things.
Sentence 36: The first is to increase the original output of the raw material or metals, and the second is to divert from civilian use to defense needs at least 50 percent—at least half—of all metals which during this past year have been going to civilian and not defense purposes.
Sentence 37: It means that people will have to do without a great many metal things, which they have been able to get up to this time.
Sentence 38: Q. Mr. President, this speed-up thing in production will about eliminate any unemployment in the automobile industry, will it not?
Sentence 39: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 40: Oh, I don't think you can put it that way, because after all, if I said it would end it, then you would come back at me a month or two from now and say, "How about these people that have been thrown out of work temporarily while they were retooling the factory?"
Sentence 41: You see?
Sentence 42: Q.
Sentence 43: I was thinking—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) Not permanent.
Sentence 44: It's just like the usual slump in the automobile business, you know.
Sentence 45: About every summer they stop working for a month to get the tools for the new models out.
Sentence 46: Well, there may be something like that occurring in various plants, not only automobile but lots of other things, where they are retooling for defense purposes ....
Sentence 47: Q. Mr. President, you have had a number of discussions with labor leaders in the last couple of weeks.
Sentence 48: A number of them have suggested the calling of a conference of labor and industry, to see if they couldn't sit down together and work out some kind of a voluntary program, in the place of anti-strike legislation.
Sentence 49: Are you giving any consideration to calling such a conference?
Sentence 50: THE PRESIDENT: I am.
Sentence 51: And that is all I can say.
Sentence 52: Whether it would be an unofficial off-the-record, or an official conference, I haven't got the slightest idea.
Sentence 53: I am giving it consideration.
Sentence 54: Don't write it up as meaning this, that, or the other thing, because frankly I don't know ....
Sentence 55: Q. Mr. President, this is not an impudent question, sir, but it might clear up things.
Sentence 56: Do you intend to give the public the benefit of all of the reports you get?
Sentence 57: THE PRESIDENT: I would say this: I am going to give, all of us are going to give everything to the public, on two conditions.
Sentence 58: All information has to conform with two obvious conditions before it can be given out.
Sentence 59: The first is that it is accurate.
Sentence 60: Well, I should think that would seem fairly obvious.
Sentence 61: And the second is that in giving it out it does not give aid and comfort to the enemy.
Sentence 62: And I should think that those two conditions ought to be put up in every office in Washington.
Sentence 63: Q.
Sentence 64: Where?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 65: In Washington.
Sentence 66: That includes newspaper offices as well as department offices.
Sentence 67: Q. There is no use to have that put up in department offices, because it is impossible to get any information from any department now, on the material that is a matter of record.
Sentence 68: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 69: Oh, but are you sure that it conforms to both conditions?
Sentence 70: Q.
Sentence 71: To both of them, yes.
THE PRESIDENT: Who told you that?
Sentence 72: Q.
Sentence 73: What?
Sentence 74: They give you the run-around.
Sentence 75: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 76: Well, then, you can't assume that the information has conformed to the two conditions.
Sentence 77: Q. You ought to have someone there who can say whether it does conform, and we are not—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing)
Sentence 78: Oh, that has got to be determined by the higher officers—the Army and Navy.
Sentence 79: Q.
Sentence 80: But we have been told that these officers have no information—have instructions not to talk on any subject.
Sentence 81: THE PRESIDENT: I think that is probably correct.
Sentence 82: Q. Where does that put us?
Sentence 83: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 84: It means that you have got to wait—sit and wait on this information, because you can't determine whether certain information conforms to those two principles.
Sentence 85: We can't leave that determination in the hands of a third assistant—what—Captain or Major in the Army, or a Lieutenant Commander in the Navy, who is a third or fourth assistant to the officer.
Sentence 86: It has got to come from the top.
Sentence 87: Q.
Sentence 88: I am talking about what is already a matter of record.
Sentence 89: It is a question of saving us time.
Sentence 90: We spent four hours getting some information which was a matter of record.
Sentence 91: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 92: Oh, but lots of these things may be matters of record.
Sentence 93: It does not mean that they conform.
Sentence 94: Q.
Sentence 95: Can we print that then?
Sentence 96: THE PRESIDENT: Certainly not.
Sentence 97: You are going to get it as soon as the information conforms to those two principles.
Sentence 98: Just as soon.
Sentence 99: Now that is perfectly easy.
Sentence 100: That is a very simple rule to go by.
Sentence 101: It has got to be accurate.
Sentence 102: In other words, it has got to have been proved.
Sentence 103: It can't be a flash of what somebody thinks in the matter.
Sentence 104: I want it to be an accurate record.
Sentence 105: Now that is the first thing.
Sentence 106: Now the mere fact that one bureau in one Department gets a flash, for example—I should think as a matter of fact mind you, this is war—this ought to be checked before that one bureau gets it out.
Sentence 107: It should be checked by somebody in authority.
Sentence 108: And then the second thing is that it will not be information that will help the enemy.
Sentence 109: Now you fellows can't determine that.
Sentence 110: The papers are not running the war.
Sentence 111: The Army and Navy have got to determine that. . . .
Sentence 112: Q. (interposing)
Sentence 113: Well, Mr. President, there have been a lot of reports which I think you might help us clear up, if possible, to the effect that one reason why the Japs were able to get over Pearl Harbor was that there were a lot of leaves granted -someone slept—let everybody go to Honolulu for the week end.
Sentence 114: That is the report.
Sentence 115: I think that if it could be cleared up, I think it would help.
Sentence 116: THE PRESIDENT: How do I know?
Sentence 117: How do you know?
Sentence 118: How does the person reporting it know?
Sentence 119: Q.
Sentence 120: I am sure I don't know.
Sentence 121: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 122: And neither does the person starting the report.
Sentence 123: Q.
Sentence 124: What's that?
Sentence 125: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 126: And neither does the person starting the report have any information.
Sentence 127: You have to remember that.
Sentence 128: Q.
Sentence 129: They they might have some information, mightn't they, for —
Q. Mr. President, returning to your two conditions, I wonder if you could, for our guidance, define that second condition "giving aid and comfort to the enemy"?
Sentence 130: The thing that troubles me—does that mean that no bad news is going to be given out?
Sentence 131: THE PRESIDENT: No, no.
Sentence 132: It depends on whether the giving out is of aid and comfort to the enemy.
Sentence 133: Q. Mr. President, who will determine that as the over-all judgment?
Sentence 134: Will you determine it?
Sentence 135: THE PRESIDENT: No. Army and Navy.
Sentence 136: Q. Are they going to operate individually on this?
Sentence 137: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 138: No.
Sentence 139: They work together very closely.
Sentence 140: Q.
Sentence 141: But the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Navy will each determine what should come from his Department?
Sentence 142: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 143: Yes— or jointly.
Sentence 144: Q.
Sentence 145: But there isn't to be one give-out of news then, under this setup?
Sentence 146: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 147: Well, there isn't in London, for instance.
Sentence 148: They have consultations first, and they give out in London war communiques to the public.
Sentence 149: It is divided, as I remember it, into three different kinds of communiques.
Sentence 150: One is Army, one is Air, and one is Navy.
Sentence 151: And I think in London the way they have worked it out, to apparently the satisfaction of everybody-the press too—those are, each one of them, broken down into general fields.
Sentence 152: For instance, on the Navy end, it's- there is a field called the Mediterranean field, another one called the Atlantic, and I suppose now there will be another- the Far East.
Sentence 153: And in the Air end, there are three fields there at the present time.
Sentence 154: There is the Libyan field, the Mediterranean, and the German field; and the domestic field.
Sentence 155: It seems to work out all right.
Sentence 156: Then of course, before they are all given out, the three fighting arms over there- we have only two- talk it over between them, and see that they don't clash in what they give out ....
Sentence 157: Q. Will there eventually be a censor that we can get our teeth into?
Sentence 158: THE PRESIDENT: It is awfully hard to answer it.
Sentence 159: Talk to Steve
Sentence 160: [Early] about this ....
Sentence 161: What we want is to get the news out as soon as we can, subject to the two qualifications, and do it in the most convenient way.
Sentence 162: In other words, our objectives are exactly alike.
Sentence 163: It is going to work all right.
