Sentence 1: 1941 Press Conference 0

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I don't think I have any news.
Sentence 3: Anybody got any news?
Sentence 4: Q. Mr. President, would you care to comment on the proposition to put a time limit on the lend-lease bill?
Sentence 5: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 6: Oh, no; because if I start commenting on one, you boys will be asking me about two or three every Tuesday and two or three every Friday; and you merely start a chain.
Sentence 7: Don't let's start one of those chains now.
Sentence 8: Q. Did you intimate, sir, the name of the new Ambassador to England?
Sentence 9: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 10: No, I haven't done anything about it.
Sentence 11: That's about all there is.
Sentence 12: Q. Have you personally made your selection for the Ambassador, Mr. President?
Sentence 13: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 14: Yes.
Sentence 15: Q. Could you tell us—
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 16: [interposing] No.
Q. Could you tell us, sir, whether he is acceptable to the British?
Sentence 17: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 18: No, I haven't even asked them; and he doesn't know, either.
Sentence 19: Q.
Sentence 20: He doesn't know?
Sentence 21: THE PRESIDENT: No—that he has been selected.
Sentence 22: Isn't that an awful mystery?
Sentence 23: You could almost write an Oppenheim novel around that—probably will, so it's all right!
Sentence 24: (Laughter)
Sentence 25: Q.
Sentence 26: A lot of people uncertain, sir.
Sentence 27: Q. Would it narrow the matter down to—
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 28: [interposing] Yes—before you finish your question- it would.
Sentence 29: (Laughter)
Sentence 30: Q. I didn't ask the question, but close to it, sir.
Sentence 31: THE PRESIDENT: Don't do any guessing; because I haven't mentioned this to anybody at all—not even to myself out loud.
Sentence 32: (Laughter)
Sentence 33: Q. Will it be a surprise?
Sentence 34: (More laughter)
Sentence 35: Q. You may not realize it, sir, but we are trying to encourage you to mention it now.
Sentence 36: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 37: Down East they would say, "You don't say!"(Continued laughter)
Sentence 38: Q. Mr. President, what lies behind the increased purchases of mercury by this country from Mexico?
Sentence 39: THE PRESIDENT: Stocking up—that's all.
Sentence 40: Mercury is one of those metals that we produce in very limited quantities ourselves, and it's on that list of metals—mostly metals- that we don't have enough reserve war stocks of, and we have been gradually building them up.
Sentence 41: Q. Could you tell us, sir, about this home defense plan you were discussing?
Sentence 42: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 43: No, except that we are discussing it; that's as far as we have got.
Sentence 44: There is no plan yet that has been accepted.
Sentence 45: Q.
Sentence 46: Can you tell us about the objective in home defense you are striving for?
Sentence 47: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 48: Well, it's to give everybody who wants to do something toward defense a method of doing his or her part, no matter where they live—in every State in the Union, every big city, small city, town, farm, and everything else-give them an opportunity to do their share.
Sentence 49: Q. Mr. President, do you have any comment on the label that has been put on the lease-lend bill as a "blank-check" bill?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 50: Yes, I suppose so; the easiest answer is: "Write me another that you would not put that label on but which would accomplish the same objective.
Sentence 51: "
That is a perfectly good answer to all these people.
Sentence 52: That is not an answer at all, however, to those who talk about plowing under every fourth American child, which I regard as the most untruthful, as the most dastardly, unpatriotic thing that has ever been said [referring to remark made by Senator Burton K. Wheeler].
Sentence 53: Quote me on that.
Sentence 54: That really is the rottenest thing that has been said in public life in my generation.
Sentence 55: Q. Did you say quote you on that?
Sentence 56: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 57: Yes.
Sentence 58: Q.
Sentence 59: I wasn't prepared for that.
Sentence 60: Would you repeat it, please?
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 62: Fred's [Mr. Essary's] ears were.
Sentence 63: "wacky"; he didn't hear it.
Sentence 64: Foote, read it back, beginning with, "That is not—."
[The reporter then read the sentences referred to.]
Sentence 65: Q.
Sentence 66: May we have the question before that?
Sentence 67: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 68: I said my answer on the question of the label wasn't an answer to this other thing.
Sentence 69: Q. Mr. President, where was the statement made—the original statement?
THE PRESIDENT'
Sentence 70: I read it in the paper; it has been quoted by several people.
Sentence 71: It was quoted in one of the radio debates the other night by somebody else.
Sentence 72: Q.
Sentence 73: You say you don't remember who said it?
Sentence 74: THE PRESIDENT: No; it was said by three or four people.
Sentence 75: In other words, it's a good time to kill a proposed slogan, at birth.
