Sentence 1: 1941 Excerpts From The Press Conference 76

THE PRESIDENT: You will have to wait a minute and see if I can find something which Steve [Early] says there's a story on.
Sentence 2: I am not sure whether I can find it or not.
Sentence 3: (Laughter)
Sentence 4: (Looking through papers in his workbasket)
Sentence 5: That's not it.
Sentence 6: I guess that's it.
Sentence 7: I guess I can make something out of it.
Sentence 8: Yes, that's it.
Sentence 9: (Pause) Just let me take a glance at it.
Sentence 10: (Pause)
Sentence 11: Well, now that the Lend-Lease bill has passed both Houses, although it is still in conference, I think it is all right for you to say something about the development and extension of the whole program of supplies for our own Army and Navy for the future, and also under lend-lease.
Sentence 12: Studies are being made along this line with the eventual objective of looking ahead as far as is possible, because, as you know, things change all the time.
Sentence 13: It might be called a comprehensive program- call it an all-out program.
Sentence 14: Those studies have been going on for two or three months, and they are of course not ready for presentation as a whole at this time.
Sentence 15: That will come later.
Sentence 16: But, in the meantime, in making these studies, there are certain items that appear to be of immediate importance in the sense that the starting of these particular items was not dependent on the whole program.
Sentence 17: One of them, for example, is the question of tanks, and we've agreed on a very great increase of the tank program.
Sentence 18: I suppose that the tank problem is as good an illustration of what happens in a world war as anything else.
Sentence 19: About a year ago last spring, all of our Army people, with the best information that could be got from the people who are actively fighting against Hitlerism, caused our experts to lay down a tank program which met with the general approval of everybody, all the experts both here and abroad.
Sentence 20: And that program was, of course, immediately undertaken, and I might almost say it's in full swing at the present time.
Sentence 21: Actual deliveries have been made for a good many months, and we are reaching the peak of production in it, according to the original program.
Sentence 22: Now, since then, certain factors appeared which nobody could tell about over a year ago.
Sentence 23: The use of tanks in certain areas, not necessarily all areas, but certain areas, has become more important relatively than was believed a year and a half ago, and that is why for some time we have been working on this increase in the tank program.
Sentence 24: The Army will give me the actual request for funds of which the tank item is the largest.
Sentence 25: Many thousands more tanks, and of course, in addition, certain other critical items of ordnance connected with tanks, are part of the developing program which I hope to have—I won't say in final form, because nothing is final, but it is in a fairly complete, rounded picture. . .
Sentence 26: .
Sentence 27: I can't give you any actual figures, except that the program on, for instance, tanks, will be vastly greater than it is today, and it is realistic.
Sentence 28: It will mean the increase of output in existing plants, and will probably mean new plants.
Sentence 29: These are known immediate needs of essential ordnance items.
Sentence 30: And probably the request for this will go up fairly soon, with an appropriation to be put into the next appropriation bill. . . .
Sentence 31: Q. Mr. President, it was just a short time ago that you told us that you were going to give the totals of aircraft production hereafter, but not break it down into categories-
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) I don't think we will give you even the totals.
Sentence 32: Q.
Sentence 33: I was wondering what was making the change?
Sentence 34: THE PRESIDENT: Because it's information that the other side would like to have. . .
Sentence 35: .
Sentence 36: Q. Mr. President, there have been some discussions in the defense agencies of doubling the heavy bomber program too.
Sentence 37: Can you tell us anything about that?
Sentence 38: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 39: No.
Sentence 40: That's what they would like to know, too.
Sentence 41: Q. Mr. President, might it be said that you try to conceal large numbers given you instead of small numbers?
Sentence 42: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 43: It reminds me—I don't know—I have probably told you this story many times before.
Sentence 44: During the World War in the early summer of 1918, we were getting an awful lot of men over to Europe.
Sentence 45: Of course, they weren't equipped.
Sentence 46: We all know that.
Sentence 47: We didn't send any artillery with them, and we didn't send any planes with them, so when they got there they had to be furnished with French or British equipment.
Sentence 48: Still an awful lot of men to keep secret, and we were pretty happy about the whole thing.
Sentence 49: They were actually being landed.
Sentence 50: And we had a policy, as you know, of complete secrecy about numbers, and that lasted all through the early summer of 1918.
Sentence 51: And everybody was asking the same question: "Why this secrecy?
Sentence 52: Does it mean an awful lot of men, or are they behind schedule?
Sentence 53: "
Well, I got over to Paris in early July, and they had a meeting of the Inter-Allied Naval Council, and of the Army end of it, and they talked a couple of days as to whether the time hadn't come to do a little boasting.
Sentence 54: And so we came out with a big splurge announcing that we had got—I don't know what it was—a million and a quarter men, actually in France.
Sentence 55: And I was deputed to receive the French press, and tell them that the Navy, in cooperation with the British and the French, had very greatly cut down on submarine sinkings, and that our Navy had a complete line of anti-submarine aircraft patrol the whole length of the west coast of France, Bay of Biscay, et cetera.
Sentence 56: And the French press came in, and I told them the story, and I made it just as big as I possibly could.
Sentence 57: In other words, the psychological moment had arrived, which made it perfectly clear to Germany that they couldn't win under any possible circumstances.
Sentence 58: And it's a question of timing.
Sentence 59: And the thing went through, and of course it leaked back to Germany and probably was done in just about the right way.
Sentence 60: I personally had a little episode that was very funny.
Sentence 61: I received the French press at 11:00 A.M. in the hotel.
Sentence 62: And the people in charge of it had prepared one end of the room as a bar, with all the champagne and hots d'oeuvres, et cetera, that you could put on it.
Sentence 63: Well, I went in there.
Sentence 64: It was a great, big room.
Sentence 65: And the French press arrived at 11:00 A.M., and they were all in full dress suits, with white ties.
Sentence 66: (Laughter)
Sentence 67: And they weren't the working newspapermen—a few were—nearly all of them were the redacteurs—the editors—of the papers.
Sentence 68: They were having the privilege of being received by "Monsieur le Ministre."
Sentence 69: Apparently it created the most awful furor.
Sentence 70: Well, I had a translator there, and he started in trying to translate.
Sentence 71: He couldn't translate it, so I sat on the edge of the table, and in perfectly awful French told the story.
Sentence 72: "Well," I said, "go ahead and ask questions."
Sentence 73: Well, that was something that they had never heard of in the newspaper business in France—asking questions of a "Ministre."
Sentence 74: Unheard of.
Sentence 75: So they asked a few questions, and I answered them as far as I was allowed to.
Sentence 76: And then at the end, one of these editors in the full dress suit said, "Monsieur le Ministre, is it really true that in Washington the members of the Cabinet receive the press once a day?"
Sentence 77: I said, "Yes.
Sentence 78: Twice a day."
Sentence 79: (Laughter)
Sentence 80: At the time I thought nothing of it.
Sentence 81: Next morning I went around to breakfast with old man Clemenceau, and as I went into the room, Clemenceau came at me, just like a tiger, with his claws out- (holding up his hands).
Sentence 82: He said, "Ah, you overthrow my Government.
Sentence 83: You overthrow my Government."
Sentence 84: (Laughter)
Sentence 85: "You lose the war."
Sentence 86: Well, I was horrified.
Sentence 87: I said, "Oh my, what have I done?"
Sentence 88: He said, "The French news men, they come—they want to see me—they want to see me and my Cabinet once a day, and some of them say twice a day."
Sentence 89: (Laughter) "I will resign first."
Sentence 90: (More laughter)
Sentence 91: So I darn near overthrew the Government and lost the war. . .
Sentence 92: .
Sentence 93: Q. Mr. President, we have a story that one or two papers issued, about a seaman in Honolulu who said he passed through the Red Sea.
Sentence 94: His ship, he said, was subjected to a very severe Nazi bombing.
Sentence 95: He said that they couldn't hit a bull with a bass fiddle, but indicated that there is a great deal of that in that area.
Sentence 96: Are you aware of that, or have you had anything on that line?
Sentence 97: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Sentence 98: The only thing I heard on that was that Hitler had been going to one of the few prominent Jews left in Germany, and told him that he could stay, if he would explain to him how Moses managed to get the waters to stand aside and let the Children of Israel across.
Sentence 99: (Laughter)
