Sentence 1: 1941 Fireside Chat 12

The sudden criminal attacks perpetrated by the Japanese in the Pacific provide the climax of a decade of international immorality.
Sentence 2: Powerful and resourceful gangsters have banded together to make war upon the whole human race.
Sentence 3: Their challenge has now been flung at the United States of America.
Sentence 4: The Japanese have treacherously violated the long-standing peace between us.
Sentence 5: Many American soldiers and sailors have been killed by enemy action.
Sentence 6: American ships have been sunk; American airplanes have been destroyed.
Sentence 7: The Congress and the people of the United States have accepted that challenge.
Sentence 8: Together with other free peoples, we are now fighting to maintain our right to live among our world neighbors in freedom and in common decency, without fear of assault.
Sentence 9: I have prepared the full record of our past relations with Japan, and it will be submitted to the Congress.
Sentence 10: It begins with the visit of Commodore Perry to Japan 88 years ago.
Sentence 11: It ends with the visit of two Japanese emissaries to the Secretary of State last Sunday, an hour after Japanese forces had loosed their bombs and machine guns against our flag, our forces, and our citizens.
Sentence 12: I can say with utmost confidence that no Americans, today or a thousand years hence, need feel anything but pride in our patience and in our efforts through all the years toward achieving a peace in the Pacific which would be fair and honorable to every Nation, large or small.
Sentence 13: And no honest person, today or a thousand years hence, will be able to suppress a sense of indignation and horror at the treachery committed by the military dictators of Japan, under the very shadow of the flag of peace borne by their special envoys in our midst.
Sentence 14: The course that Japan has followed for the past ten years in Asia has paralleled the course of Hitler and Mussolini in Europe and in Africa.
Sentence 15: Today, it has become far more than a parallel.
Sentence 16: It is actual collaboration so well calculated that all the continents of the world, and all the oceans, are now considered by the Axis strategists as one gigantic battlefield.
Sentence 17: In 1931, ten years ago, Japan invaded Manchukuo—without warning.
Sentence 18: In 1935, Italy invaded Ethiopia—without warning.
Sentence 19: In 1938, Hitler occupied Austria —without warning.
Sentence 20: In 1939, Hitler invaded Czechoslovakia- without warning.
Sentence 21: Later in 1939, Hitler invaded Poland- without warning.
Sentence 22: In 1940, Hitler invaded Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg- without warning.
Sentence 23: In 1940, Italy attacked France and later Greece—without warning.
Sentence 24: And this year, in 1941, the Axis powers attacked Yugoslavia and Greece and they dominated the Balkans—without warning.
Sentence 25: In 1941, also, Hitler invaded Russia—without warning.
Sentence 26: And now Japan has attacked Malaya and Thailand—and the United States—without warning.
Sentence 27: It is all of one pattern.
Sentence 28: We are now in this war.
Sentence 29: We are all in it- all the way.
Sentence 30: Every single man, woman, and child is a partner in the most tremendous undertaking of our American history.
Sentence 31: We must share together the bad news and the good news, the defeats and the victories—the changing fortunes of war.
Sentence 32: So far, the news has been all bad.
Sentence 33: We have suffered a serious set-back in Hawaii.
Sentence 34: Our forces in the Philippines, which include the brave people of that Commonwealth, are taking punishment, but are defending themselves vigorously.
Sentence 35: The reports from Guam and Wake and Midway islands are still confused, but we must be prepared for the announcement that all these three outposts have been seized.
Sentence 36: The casualty lists of these first few days will undoubtedly be large.
Sentence 37: I deeply feel the anxiety of all of the families of the men in our armed forces and the relatives of people in cities which have been bombed.
Sentence 38: I can only give them my solemn promise that they will get news just as quickly as possible.
Sentence 39: This Government will put its trust in the stamina of the American people, and will give the facts to the public just as soon as two conditions have been fulfilled: first, that the information has been definitely and officially confirmed; and, second, that the release of the information at the time it is received will not prove valuable to the enemy directly or indirectly.
Sentence 40: Most earnestly I urge my countrymen to reject all rumors.
Sentence 41: These ugly little hints of complete disaster fly thick and fast in wartime.
Sentence 42: They have to be examined and appraised.
Sentence 43: As an example, I can tell you frankly that until further surveys are made, I have not sufficient information to state the exact damage which has been done to our naval vessels at Pearl Harbor.
Sentence 44: Admittedly the damage is serious.
Sentence 45: But no one can say how serious, until we know how much of this damage can be repaired and how quickly the necessary repairs can be made.
Sentence 46: I cite as another example a statement made on Sunday night that a Japanese carrier had been located and sunk off the Canal Zone.
Sentence 47: And when you hear statements that are attributed to what they call "an authoritative source," you can be reasonably sure from now on that under these war circumstances the "authoritative source" is not any person in authority.
Sentence 48: Many rumors and reports which we now hear originate with enemy sources.
Sentence 49: For instance, today the Japanese are claiming that as a result of their one action against Hawaii they have gained naval supremacy in the Pacific.
Sentence 50: This is an old trick of propaganda which has been used innumerable times by the Nazis.
Sentence 51: The purposes of such fantastic claims are, of course, to spread fear and confusion among us, and to goad us into revealing military information which our enemies are desperately anxious to obtain.
Sentence 52: Our Government will not be caught in this obvious trap—and neither will the people of the United States.
Sentence 53: It must be remembered by each and every one of us that our free and rapid communication these days must be greatly restricted in wartime.
Sentence 54: It is not possible to receive full, speedy, accurate reports from distant areas of combat.
Sentence 55: This is particularly true where naval operations are concerned.
Sentence 56: For in these days of the marvels of radio it is often impossible for the commanders of various units to report their activities by radio at all, for the very simple reason that this information would become available to the enemy, and would disclose their position and their plan of defense or attack.
Sentence 57: Of necessity there will be delays in officially confirming or denying reports of operations but we will not hide facts from the country if we know the facts and if the enemy will not be aided by their disclosure.
Sentence 58: To all newspapers and radio stations—all those who reach the eyes and ears of the American people—I say this: You have a most grave responsibility to the Nation now and for the duration of this war.
Sentence 59: If you feel that your Government is not disclosing enough of the truth, you have every right to say so.
Sentence 60: But—in the absence of all the facts, as revealed by official sources—you have no right in the ethics of patriotism to deal out unconfirmed reports in such a way as to make people believe that they are gospel truth.
Sentence 61: Every citizen, in every walk of life,.
Sentence 62: shares this same responsibility.
Sentence 63: The lives of our soldiers and sailors- the whole future of this Nation—depend upon the manner in which each and every one of us fulfills his obligation to our country.
Sentence 64: Now a word about the recent past—and the future.
Sentence 65: A year and a half has elapsed since the fall of France, when the whole world first realized the mechanized might which the Axis Nations had been building for so many years.
Sentence 66: America has used that year and a half to great advantage.
Sentence 67: Knowing that the attack might reach us in all too short a time, we immediately began greatly to increase our industrial strength and our capacity to meet the demands of modern warfare.
Sentence 68: Precious months were gained by sending vast quantities of our war material to the Nations of the world still able to resist Axis aggression.
Sentence 69: Our policy rested on the fundamental truth that the defense of any country resisting Hitler or Japan was in the long run the defense of our own country.
Sentence 70: That policy has been justified.
Sentence 71: It has given us time, invaluable time, to build our American assembly lines of production.
Sentence 72: Assembly lines are now in operation.
Sentence 73: Others are being rushed to completion.
Sentence 74: A steady stream of tanks and planes, of guns and ships, and shells and equipment—that is what these eighteen months have given us.
Sentence 75: But it is all only a beginning of what still has to be done.
Sentence 76: We must be set to face a long war against crafty and powerful bandits.
Sentence 77: The attack at Pearl Harbor can be repeated at any one of many points, points in both oceans and along both our coast lines and against all the rest of the hemisphere.
Sentence 78: It will not only be a long war, it will be a hard war.
Sentence 79: That is the basis on which we now lay all our plans.
Sentence 80: That is the yardstick by which we measure what we shall need and demand; money, materials, doubled and quadrupled production—ever-increasing.
Sentence 81: The production must be not only for our own Army and Navy and Air Forces.
Sentence 82: It must reinforce the other armies and navies and air forces fighting the Nazis and the war lords of Japan throughout the Americas and throughout the world.
Sentence 83: I have been working today on the subject of production.
Sentence 84: Your Government has decided on two broad policies.
Sentence 85: The first is to speed up all existing production by working on a seven-day-week basis in every war industry, including the production of essential raw materials.
Sentence 86: The second policy, now being put into form, is to rush additions to the capacity of production by building more new plants, by adding to old plants, and by using the many smaller plants for war needs.
Sentence 87: Over the hard road of the past months, we have at times met obstacles and difficulties, divisions and disputes, indifference and callousness.
Sentence 88: That is now all past—and, I am sure, forgotten.
Sentence 89: The fact is that the country now has an organization in Washington built around men and women who are recognized experts in their own fields.
Sentence 90: I think the country knows that the people who are actually responsible in each and every one of these many fields are pulling together with a teamwork that has never before been excelled.
Sentence 91: On the road ahead there lies hard work—grueling work—day and night, every hour and every minute.
Sentence 92: I was about to add that ahead there lies sacrifice for all of us.
Sentence 93: But it is not correct to use that word.
Sentence 94: The United States does not consider it a sacrifice to do all one can, to give one's best to our Nation, when the Nation is fighting for its existence and its future life.
Sentence 95: It is not a sacrifice for any man, old or young, to be in the Army or the Navy of the United States.
Sentence 96: Rather is it a privilege.
Sentence 97: It is not a sacrifice for the industrialist or the wage earner, the farmer or the shopkeeper, the trainman or the doctor, to pay more taxes, to buy more bonds, to forego extra profits, to work longer or harder at the task for which he is best fitted.
Sentence 98: Rather is it a privilege.
Sentence 99: It is not a sacrifice to do without many things to which we are accustomed if the national defense calls for doing without.
Sentence 100: A review this morning leads me to the conclusion that at present we shall not have to curtail the normal use of articles of food.
Sentence 101: There is enough food today for all of us and enough left over to send to those who are fighting on the same side with us.
Sentence 102: But there will be a clear and definite shortage of metals of many kinds for civilian use, for the very good reason that in our increased program we shall need for war purposes more than half of that portion of the principal metals which during the past year have gone into articles for civilian use.
Sentence 103: Yes, we shall have to give up many things entirely.
Sentence 104: And I am sure that the people in every part of the Nation are prepared in their individual living to win this war.
Sentence 105: I am sure that they will cheerfully help to pay a large part of its financial cost while it goes on.
Sentence 106: I am sure they will cheerfully give up those material things that they are asked to give up.
Sentence 107: And I am sure that they will retain all those great spiritual things without which we cannot win through.
Sentence 108: I repeat that the United States can accept no result save victory, final and complete.
Sentence 109: Not only must the shame of Japanese treachery be wiped out, but the sources of international brutality, wherever they exist, must be absolutely and finally broken.
Sentence 110: In my message to the Congress yesterday I said that we "will make it very certain that this form of treachery shall never again endanger us."
Sentence 111: In order to achieve that certainty, we must begin the great task that is before us by abandoning once and for all the illusion that we can ever again isolate ourselves from the rest of humanity.
Sentence 112: In these past few years- and, most violently, in the past three days- we have learned a terrible lesson.
Sentence 113: It is our obligation to our dead—it is our sacred obligation' to their children and to our children-that we must never forget what we have learned.
Sentence 114: And what we all have learned is this:
There is no such thing as security for any Nation—or any individual- in a world ruled by the principles of gangsterism.
Sentence 115: There is no such thing as impregnable defense against powerful aggressors who sneak up in the dark and strike without warning.
Sentence 116: We have learned that our ocean-girt hemisphere is not immune from severe attack—that we cannot measure our safety in terms of miles on any map any more.
Sentence 117: We may acknowledge that our enemies have performed a brilliant feat of deception, perfectly timed and executed with great skill.
Sentence 118: It was a thoroughly dishonorable deed, but we must face the fact that modern warfare as conducted in the Nazi manner is a dirty business.
Sentence 119: We don't like it-
Sentence 120: we didn't want to get in it
Sentence 121: -but we are in it and we're going to fight it with everything we've got.
Sentence 122: I do not think any American has any doubt of our ability to administer proper punishment to the perpetrators of these crimes.
Sentence 123: Your Government knows that for weeks Germany has been telling Japan that if Japan did not attack the United States, Japan would not share in dividing the spoils with Germany when peace came.
Sentence 124: She was promised by Germany that if she came in she would receive the complete and perpetual control of the whole of the Pacific area—and that means not only the Far East, but also all of the islands in the Pacific, and also a stranglehold on the west coast of North, Central, and South America.
Sentence 125: We know also that Germany and Japan are conducting their military and naval operations in accordance with a joint plan.
Sentence 126: That plan considers all peoples and Nations which are not helping the Axis powers as common enemies of each and every one of the Axis powers.
Sentence 127: That is their simple and obvious grand strategy.
Sentence 128: And that is why the American people must realize that it can be matched only with similar grand strategy.
Sentence 129: We must realize for example that Japanese successes against the United States in the Pacific are helpful to German operations in Libya; that any German success against the Caucasus is inevitably an assistance to Japan in her operations against the Dutch East Indies; that a German attack against Algiers or Morocco opens the way to a German attack against South America, and the Canal.
Sentence 130: On the other side of the picture, we must learn also to know that guerrilla warfare against the Germans in, let us say, Serbia or Norway helps us; that a successful Russian offensive against the Germans helps us; and that British successes on land or sea in any part of the world strengthen our hands.
Sentence 131: Remember always that Germany and Italy, regardless of any formal declaration of war, consider themselves at war with the United States at this moment just as much as they consider themselves at war with Britain or Russia.
Sentence 132: And Germany puts all the other Republics of the Americas into the same category of enemies.
Sentence 133: The people of our sister Republics of this hemisphere can 'be honored by that fact.
Sentence 134: The true goal we seek is far above and beyond the ugly field of battle.
Sentence 135: When we resort to force, as now we must, we are determined that this force shall be directed toward ultimate good as well as against immediate evil.
Sentence 136: We Americans are not destroyers —we are builders.
Sentence 137: We are now in the midst of a war, not for conquest, not for vengeance, but for a world in which this Nation, and all that this Nation represents, will be safe for our children.
Sentence 138: We expect to eliminate the danger from Japan, but it would serve us ill if we accomplished that and found that the rest of the world was dominated by Hitler and Mussolini.
Sentence 139: We are going to win the war and we are going to win the peace that follows.
Sentence 140: And in the difficult hours of this day—through dark days that may be yet to come- we will know that the vast majority of the members of the human race are on our side.
Sentence 141: Many of them are fighting with us.
Sentence 142: All of them are praying for us.
Sentence 143: For in representing our cause, we represent theirs as well- our hope and their hope for liberty under God.
