Sentence 1: 1941 Excerpts From The Press Conference 64

Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask a question, off the record if necessary.
Sentence 2: Lots of people who think just as you do on this war issue also think that a continuance of diplomatic relations with Germany is a form of dishonesty.
Sentence 3: Could you elaborate your thoughts for background?
Sentence 4: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Sentence 5: Only off the record.
Sentence 6: I would have to make it completely off the record.
Sentence 7: As you know, we have taken the position—the Secretary of State was repeating it the other day—that we are actually and truly only acting on the defense.
Sentence 8: That's all.
Sentence 9: That is literally true on all the oceans, and various other places.
Sentence 10: There are a great many other things to support that, that haven't come out.
Sentence 11: Well, one of the dispatches this morning showed a very definite attempt on the part of Germany to establish itself, by the infiltration method, in a little place called Liberia.
Sentence 12: Well, that's a thing we can't use, because the Liberian Government realizes exactly what the purpose was—establishing an airline down there.
Sentence 13: Liberia, of course, is awfully close to South America.
Sentence 14: It's just another step.
Sentence 15: And it depends entirely on how you like to look at it.
Sentence 16: Is it an attack, or isn't it?
Sentence 17: In one sense it is an attack, because it is the first stage of the development of German control, probably down to a point directly opposite South America.
Sentence 18: And as I say, there are constant instances of trying to spread their power all over the world which are not "shooting" down there, but it's a very definite attempt to attack the Americas.
Sentence 19: You know the point of view.
Sentence 20: And naturally we are resisting for the purpose of our own defense, and hemisphere defense.
Sentence 21: And the question always arises here.
Sentence 22: We don't want a declared war with Germany because we are acting in defense self-defense—every action.
Sentence 23: And to break off diplomatic relations-why, that won't do any good.
Sentence 24: I really frankly don't know that it would do any good.
Sentence 25: It might be more useful to keep them the way they are.
Sentence 26: Q.
Sentence 27: There is the thought that in that way the situation would be brought home very directly to the American people.
Sentence 28: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 29: Oh, I think the American people understand it pretty well.
Sentence 30: After all, in days like this, you don't do things for the sake of the record.
Sentence 31: And that is about all it would be.
Sentence 32: Q. Why can't stuff like that Liberian incident be published, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 33: Well, because it isn't the time to do it.
Sentence 34: Publishing things of this kind is a question of timing, as you will probably see in the course of the next two or three days.
Sentence 35: Q. Mr. President, there isn't any more you could say about this New York mayoralty contest, is there?
Sentence 36: They seem to be doing some awfully harsh talking down there.
Sentence 37: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 38: A lot of hard talking.
Sentence 39: I got a report yesterday that there was a story in New York that I had repudiated what I had said about the Mayor.
Sentence 40: And that story was being circulated.
Sentence 41: Of course there is absolutely nothing, not one word or vestige of truth in it.
Sentence 42: I think that is all ....
Sentence 43: Q. Mr. President, are you going to vote?
Sentence 44: About the usual hour tomorrow morning, I mean.
Sentence 45: THE PRESIDENT: I think so.
Sentence 46: We haven't worked it out yet.
Sentence 47: I think Mrs. Roosevelt
Sentence 48: and I will go up there about, I would say, eleven or twelve o'clock.
Sentence 49: Q. Yes, sir.
Sentence 50: I don't assume you have anything much to say about the local election campaigns?
Sentence 51: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 52: No. I can't say anything out loud about it.
Sentence 53: But for your own private information, Mr. Van Wagner
Sentence 54: [Elmer Van Wagner]-
Sentence 55: I think he has been an awfully good Supervisor of the Town.
Sentence 56: We have two people that are running for Superintendent of Highways, and they are both named Marshall, isn't that right?
Sentence 57: Q. Yes.
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT: I hope the Marshall who is in now will stay in, because I think the roads are—I drive over them a great deal—are in better shape than I have seen them for a long time.
Sentence 59: Q.
Sentence 60: Those two Marshalls, Mr. President- regarding those two Marshalls, did you ever hear about the time Tuxedo Park voted unanimously the Socialist ticket?
Sentence 61: They got a new voting machine, and the handle of the Socialist came down over the Republican.
Sentence 62: They all voted wrong.
Sentence 63: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 64: I love it.
Sentence 65: (Laughter)
Sentence 66: Q. Mr. President, we were looking over some of the exhibits out there, while we were waiting.
Sentence 67: How is the Library [Franklin D. Roosevelt Library] getting along?
Sentence 68: Lots of people coming up?
THE PRESIDENT: Getting along.
Sentence 69: Much larger attendance than we had expected.
Sentence 70: I think the figure for the first four months was about 40,000.
Sentence 71: Q. Is that total for the first four months?
Sentence 72: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 73: Yes.
Sentence 74: And of course Mr. Shipman is getting a little bit worried because there are so many more things that we are getting, that we are already faced, or will be soon, with the question of adequate space.
Sentence 75: A great many people don't realize it, but the space we have will fill up very quickly from material that is now in Washington—about six or seven million manuscripts.
Sentence 76: Of course the general public doesn't see the manuscripts.
Sentence 77: Q.
Sentence 78: What are those, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 79: Well, I would say—those manuscripts I would say are not only mine, but papers that I have been associated with, started back in 1910.
Sentence 80: Nearly three years in Albany.
Sentence 81: Then after that, the Navy files through 1920.
Sentence 82: And then, of course, a great many political files, like the campaign of 1920, and the Madison Square Garden convention in 1924, and the Houston convention in 1928.
Sentence 83: And then my campaign in 1928 for Governor, and the four years of Albany papers.
Sentence 84: Then, of course, the White House files.
Sentence 85: Then all you have to do on that is to go downstairs in the White House and look at what hasn't come up yet.
Sentence 86: There is an awful lot hasn't come up, but a great many already in the stacks.
Sentence 87: Then, of course, besides that, there are a very large number of my own books, and those are in the stacks too.
Sentence 88: And those are constantly being added to.
Sentence 89: For instance, we are getting a great many supplementary dovetailing documents and reports from different parts of the Government.
Sentence 90: Just for example, I got a telephone call yesterday from Dr. Buck, who has been the Archivist, who has been given, for permanent keeping, the old Navy Department files.
Sentence 91: They haven't got room in the Navy Building any more for them; the files go back to the French war, and Tripoli War, and the War of 1812.
Sentence 92: And as soon as Dr. Buck gets them, he is going to have them microfilmed.
Sentence 93: Q.
Sentence 94: That's the new system?
Sentence 95: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 96: That's the new system.
Sentence 97: Have them all microfilmed, and as I understand it, he will have, I think, three copies made.
Sentence 98: They will keep one in a different part of the Archives Building, and they will put another one in the Navy Department Building.
Sentence 99: And they will send one copy up here, so that if anything should ever happen to the originals, we should still have the microfilm.
Sentence 100: Of course they take up a certain amount of room.
Sentence 101: And then—well, there are a lot of things.
Sentence 102: Remember N.R.A.?
Sentence 103: Well, those files are down in Washington.
Sentence 104: They oughtn't to come here, but the more important N.R.A. files are going to be microfilmed and the copy will be brought up here, because a lot of this dovetails in with my papers.
Sentence 105: So any student would be able to get here a pretty large portion of everything that has been connected with the Administration, and not have to run around all over the place to get something here or something there ....
Sentence 106: Q.
Sentence 107: There's a slight argument among the boys this morning on how old is the tree in front, out there, that is chained up—the limbs?
Sentence 108: THE PRESIDENT: I think the story has been printed, but it is rather an interesting one.
Sentence 109: I had a tree man here about twenty years ago with a similar tree, about the same age.
Sentence 110: And he counted the rings and figured out that the tree started to grow about 1640, which is three hundred years, and then he advanced the extremely interesting theory that the tree obviously grew under field conditions.
Sentence 111: In other words, not in a forest—in those early years—because the lower limbs started out at a very low level, and branched out fifty or more feet on all sides of the tree.
Sentence 112: So it must have been an open space.
Sentence 113: It meant almost necessarily that this was a field, and if it was a field, then it was an Indian field.
Sentence 114: Therefore there was an Indian encampment, or village, right here.
Sentence 115: Q. In other words, an accidental tree grew, so to speak?
Sentence 116: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 117: Yes.
Sentence 118: It had to grow up under field conditions, and the only fields in the East in those days were Indian cultivated fields.
Sentence 119: Everywhere else were woodlands ....
Sentence 120: Q.
Sentence 121: What is that tree?
Sentence 122: THE PRESIDENT: White oak.
Sentence 123: They are all white oaks.
Sentence 124: And I think it is rather an interesting thing.
Sentence 125: Of course, we find all kinds of arrowheads.
Sentence 126: Right on the drive we dug up a deer bone—a shin bone that had been made into a needle.
Sentence 127: And we have quite a lot of arrowheads and things like that that are dug up.
Sentence 128: Q. Isn't it one of our oldest parts of America up here—in terms of history then?
Sentence 129: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 130: Yes, yes.
Sentence 131: This county did not get settled until 1690, something like that, so it couldn't have been a white man's field.
Sentence 132: It must have been an Indian's field.
Sentence 133: Of course the other side of the river was settled about 1640, over in Ulster County.
Sentence 134: Q. Mr. President, have you decided when you are going to send a request to Congress for the vastly increased tank production, about which you talked a fortnight ago?
Sentence 135: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know.
Sentence 136: Q.
Sentence 137: You haven't got to the point where you will use your draft then?
Sentence 138: THE PRESIDENT: Not yet.
Sentence 139: Q.
Sentence 140: That is just a part of the general raising of the sights?
Sentence 141: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 142: Yes, part of the whole thing.
Sentence 143: Yes.
Sentence 144: There isn't any time being lost, because of course they are still awarding actual contracts on some of the old money.
Sentence 145: It isn't all actually contracted for yet.
