Sentence 1: 1942 Excerpts From The Press Conference 34

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I actually have something today.
Sentence 3: Number one: Admiral Leahy has been ordered to active duty, and to be Chief of Staff to the Commander in Chief.
Sentence 4: He takes on the duties immediately.
Sentence 5: Then number two: I have here the report of William R. Boyd, Jr., Chairman of the Petroleum Industry War Council, the gist of which is that they have collected during this scrap rubber drive 454,155 tons of scrap rubber, which is a net addition to the Government's stock pile.
Sentence 6: I only just got it this minute.
Sentence 7: Number three: The Secretary of State [Cordell Hull] was in this morning, and I went over with him a speech which he is going to deliver on the air, I hope in the next two or three days, on the general subject of the seriousness of the war, what the winning of the war means, what victory will mean to human security, and liberty, and civilization, including the seriousness of all that those things mean to every man, woman, and child, not only in this country but throughout the world.
Sentence 8: And he showed me the draft of what he is going to say, and all I can say is that it is a very able and conclusive summary of the present world situation.
Sentence 9: And as I say, that will be delivered in the course of the next two or three days.
Sentence 10: Q. Mr. President, can you tell us what the scope of Admiral Leahy's position will be?
Sentence 11: THE PRESIDENT: Chief of Staff.
Sentence 12: I think that's all that's necessary.
Sentence 13: Q. Will he have the staff of the Army, Navy, and Air also under him?
Sentence 14: THE PRESIDENT: I haven't got the foggiest idea; and it has nothing to do with the "price of eggs.". . .
Sentence 15: Q. Mr. President, what can we do to relieve some of this German pressure on Russia?
Sentence 16: THE PRESIDENT: I wouldn't tell you if I—I wouldn't say if I could.
Sentence 17: I won't tell you.
Sentence 18: Obviously, the question shouldn't be asked or answered.
Sentence 19: Q. (interposing) Mr. President, do you plan to freeze wages?
Sentence 20: THE PRESIDENT: No. . . .
Sentence 21: Q. Mr. President, now that they have got this rubber, what are they going to do with it?
Sentence 22: THE PRESIDENT: Use it.
Sentence 23: (Laughter)
Sentence 24: Q. Mr. President, does the appointment of Admiral Leahy as Chief of Staff to the Commander in Chief mean that the Commander in Chief will take a more active direction of the strategic conduct of the war?
Sentence 25: THE PRESIDENT: That will be almost impossible.
Sentence 26: (Laughter)
Sentence 27: Q. Could you tell us any more about the Admiral's duties as Chief of Staff to the Commander in Chief?
Sentence 28: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 29: Well, put it this way: whatever's necessary from the point of view of the Commander in Chief.
Sentence 30: Now, as a matter of fact, I wouldn't go guessing around about things, in assigning more importance to this than it really deserves.
Sentence 31: The reason I answered the other question that way was that, of course, I do spend an awful lot of time on it, from the American point of view.
Sentence 32: And at the same time, in so doing, there are all kinds of things that I have to read, all kinds of opinions that I have to get, and do get, and it takes a very long time.
Sentence 33: It takes a great deal of time, which after a pretty careful survey for seven months, I should say I should be helped to save, by somebody else doing an awful lot of legwork, and indexing work, and summarizing work, and at the same time somebody in whose judgment I have got a good deal of real confidence.
Sentence 34: And it is going to save me a great many hours of work and all kinds of tasks—instead of doing them myself, finding out about things—if I can get somebody else to do the leg-work. . . .
Sentence 35: Q. Mr. President, isn't that a rather unprecedented position?
Sentence 36: Will that require Senate confirmation of the appointment, or is it purely in your executive—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) No.
Sentence 37: An order—an order to duty.
Sentence 38: Just a naval order, that's all.
Sentence 39: Q.
Sentence 40: He will definitely be Chief of Staff —
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) To the Commander in Chief.(Laughter)
Q.
Sentence 41: Yes, sir.
Sentence 42: Q. of the Army and Navy, Mr. President?
Sentence 43: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Sentence 44: To the Commander in Chief.
Sentence 45: (More laughter)
Q. (aside) Getting nowhere fast.
Sentence 46: THE PRESIDENT: YOU see, the Army has a Chief of Staff of the Army, and the Navy has the equivalent Chief of Operations of the Navy, which is practically the same thing as the Chief of Staff.
Sentence 47: Q. Mr. President, you attached an "if" a while ago to the remark about—if anything would be said it will be said in a Message to Congress soon.
Sentence 48: THE PRESIDENT: (interjecting) Yes.
Sentence 49: Q. (continuing) Can we definitely count on that Message in the next few days?
Sentence 50: THE PRESIDENT: I hope so.
Sentence 51: I hope so.
Sentence 52: Q. Do you expect to see the Congressional leaders tomorrow on that subject, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 53: I don't know yet.
Sentence 54: I haven't worked out the schedule.
Sentence 55: Some of them, maybe.
Sentence 56: Q. Mr. President, is this going to be confined to the one subject, or is this going to be a cover-all on the problems involved in the war picture now?
Sentence 57: THE PRESIDENT: You mean this Congressional Message?
Q.
Sentence 58: The Message, yes.
Sentence 59: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 60: Well, it will relate to what I described on back-Oh, what was it?—the twenty-seventh of April domestically, as one of the very great essentials in the war, to keep a thumb on the cost of living, because that goes into every home and every club in the country.
Sentence 61: Q.
Sentence 62: Well, I meant you aren't going to make this a general discussion of the war picture?
Sentence 63: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 64: Oh, no.
Sentence 65: Oh, no.
Sentence 66: This is the principal domestic problem in carrying on the war.
Sentence 67: Of course a lot of other things are dependent on it, that's true.
Sentence 68: This is the first real essential.
Sentence 69: Q. Mr. President, is there anything you could tell us about Mr.
Sentence 70: [Lauchlin] Currie's visit to China?
Sentence 71: THE PRESIDENT: The second one.
Sentence 72: (Laughter)
Sentence 73: That's about all I can say.
Sentence 74: Q. (aside) Let's go.
Sentence 75: VOICES:
Sentence 76: Thank you, Mr. President.
Sentence 77: THE PRESIDENT: I gave you plenty today.
