Sentence 1: 1942 Press Conference

(Her Majesty Wilhelmina, Queen of The Netherlands, was a guest at this Press Conference.
Sentence 2: As the newspapermen came in, the President and the Queen were both standing behind chairs in front of the desk.
Sentence 3: Mrs. Roosevelt was also present, and stood to the right of the Queen.)
Sentence 4: THE PRESIDENT: (to the Queen)
Sentence 5: I can really see them now.
Sentence 6: I very rarely see more than the front row.
Sentence 7: MR. DONALDSON: All in.
Sentence 8: THE PRESIDENT: I don't think that you good people have had any advance notice of this, but Her Majesty consented to come here today, not to be asked questions but to have the White House Correspondents' Association presented to her.
Sentence 9: I think you all know that The Netherlands and this country have most of their ideals in common.
Sentence 10: And it is a very interesting and a very wonderful thing to know that constitutionally in The Netherlands and in this country freedom of expression, freedom of speech, and freedom of the press are a part of the Government.
Sentence 11: They are recognized by the constitutions of both of our Nations.
Sentence 12: And I can only say that in these past three days, all of us the Congress, the Government- the executive branch—and I think the press- have been made very happy by the presence of this really great head of a Government as our guest head of an Allied Nation, who is seeing this war through with us.
Sentence 13: And so I present all of you gentlemen, and ladies, to Her Majesty, the Queen of The Netherlands.
Sentence 14: And I have asked her, and she has graciously consented, to say a few words to the White House Correspondents' Association.
Sentence 15: (Applause for the Queen)
Sentence 16: HER MAJESTY QUEEN WILHELMINA:
Sentence 17: I am indebted to the President for inviting me to his press and radio conference, having thus been given the occasion to voice my admiration of all the work the members of the American press and radio have done, not only in the past and happier years, but especially since the outbreak of the present war.
Sentence 18: I have had the opportunity to read and listen to reports from men and women who are actually in the many scenes of combat with the enemy, and who with complete disregard of their own safety gather their information for the sake of truth and public enlightenment.
Sentence 19: The mission of the press and radio is one of great responsibility, more so now than ever, when the future of the world and civilization is in the balance.
Sentence 20: Its fulfillment is dependent on freedom of speech and a free press—two conditions no dictator ever grants.
Sentence 21: In this country, as in all parts of my country, both rights are constitutionally guaranteed and deeply ingrained in the life of the Nation.
Sentence 22: Where occupation has temporarily abolished them, defeat of the enemy will see them restored.
Sentence 23: At present, wherever freedom of speech and press continue to exist, the contribution which press and radio make to the effort of those upon whose shoulders has been placed the sacred duty to lead democracy to victory is of immense value, because they share the task of leading mankind toward a brighter morrow.
Sentence 24: (Applause)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 25: Now we are going to sit down and proceed with the regular conference. . .
Sentence 26: .
Sentence 27: Donald Nelson wants me to mention the following—it came over the telephone a few minutes ago, so I haven't read it first.
Sentence 28: I assume it's all right.
Sentence 29: (Reading): "We are engaged in an intensive drive to collect all of the scrap possible.
Sentence 30: We need steel scrap badly to increase present production.
Sentence 31: We are keeping ahead of the blast furnaces now, but we want to accumulate 17 million tons of scrap to insure steel production for the year 1943.
Sentence 32: We want to take all abandoned steel structures, abandoned railroads, plants and buildings, old farm machinery of no further value, and any miscellaneous steel or copper—or rubber, of course—scrap that's lying around the home.
Sentence 33: This is merely another effort to get in a lot of scrap of various kinds that we feel certain is still lying around the country in different places.
Sentence 34: "
I think that's all I have got.
Sentence 35: (Then turning to Mr. Early)
Sentence 36: There isn't any more—there is nothing more on the rubber survey committee that was appointed yesterday?
MR. EARLY: No, sir.
Sentence 37: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 38: They're at work.
Sentence 39: That's all I can tell you.
Sentence 40: Q. Mr. President, have you completed your review of the case of the eight German agents?
Sentence 41: THE PRESIDENT: Not yet.
Sentence 42: Haven't finished reading it.
Sentence 43: Q. Do you expect to do so today, sir?
Sentence 44: THE PRESIDENT: I couldn't tell you.
Sentence 45: I don't know.
Sentence 46: Q. Mr. President, with respect to Mr. Nelson's memorandum to you, there comes to newspapers and radio people from all over the country the suggestion that possibly you could organize to pick up the cannon, and things of that sort, .that are lying around on courthouse squares throughout the country, plus some of the statues of bronze that people(laughter interrupting)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 47: I think there are many—
Q. (continuing) Would you care to say anything about that?
Sentence 48: THE PRESIDENT: (continuing) Taking the last point first, there are a great many statues around the country which would probably look better if they were turned into guns.
Sentence 49: (Laughter)
Sentence 50: They could perhaps be replaced after the war with something—what shall I say?—a little more artistic.
Sentence 51: (More laughter)
Sentence 52: The World War cannon, and some of the Civil War cannon are being collected.
Sentence 53: We have already gone through navy yards, and are still going through navy yards to use many of those old historic cannon.
Sentence 54: It probably is the best use they can be put to, and I think it should be done.
Sentence 55: Q. You endorse that?
Sentence 56: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 57: Yes.
Sentence 58: I am inclined to think that it wouldn't be a bad idea to get some kind of approval or authorization by Congress which would tell communities that have these cannon out on the village green that after the war is all over we will replace them with something more modern—(Laughter) that has a modern history in the winning of the war.
Sentence 59: Q. Mr. President, there are a lot of elegant brass doorknobs and mailboxes in this town.
Sentence 60: THE PRESIDENT: Would you like the chairmanship of that committee?
Sentence 61: (Laughter)
Sentence 62: Q. Mr. President, charges have been made in the New York primary campaign that Senator Jim Mead is an isolationist.
Sentence 63: Do you think so?
THE PRESIDENT: I am not talking politics.
Sentence 64: I am not engaging in the New York campaign, but whoever made any charge of that kind, I should say offhand that—well, if Jim Mead is an isolationist, so am I.
Q.
Sentence 65: Are you going to vote in the primary, sir?
THE PRESIDENT.'
Sentence 66: What?
Sentence 67: Q. Are you expecting to vote in the primary, sir?
Sentence 68: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 69: No. I am not going up for the primaries, because we have essentially no contest for— in the Democratic primaries in the District.
Sentence 70: In other words, I am not permitted to go into the Republican primaries [in which Congressman Hamilton Fish was a candidate].
Sentence 71: (Laughter)
Sentence 72: Q. Would you like to, sir?
Sentence 73: THE PRESIDENT: I would.
Sentence 74: (Laughter). . .
