Sentence 1: 1942 Excerpts From The Press Conference 30

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I think I have only got one thing here.
Sentence 3: It's a memorandum to all departments and agencies.
Sentence 4: (Reading): "I am most anxious to make sure that no man should be deferred from military service by reason of his employment in any Federal department or agency, either in Washington or in any other place.
Sentence 5: "If any such deferment has been given to anyone within your respective jurisdiction, would you please arrange for cancellation thereof as soon as possible, and notify the Selective Service Board having jurisdiction.
Sentence 6: No further requests for deferment by reason of such employment should be made, either by the agency or by the employee.
Sentence 7: "I am sure that in the overwhelming number of cases this action will be welcomed by the young men themselves who are involved.
Sentence 8: "I know that in certain technical or highly scientific or specialized branches of the service, there are a few employees who by reason of unique experience are really irreplaceable by women or older men.
Sentence 9: If there are any which in your opinion fall within this category, please write to me the full details of them, so that their cases may be passed on individually.
Sentence 10: "
In other words, no blanket exemptions, which I think goes for all the departments ....
Sentence 11: Q. Mr. President, have you any figures as to the number of people who will be affected by this?
Sentence 12: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 13: No.
Sentence 14: I guess it will be quite a lot ....
Sentence 15: Q. Does this include civilian employees of the War and Navy Departments?
Sentence 16: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 17: Oh, yes.
Sentence 18: Oh my, yes.
Sentence 19: Q. What about the young officers that are still around here?
Sentence 20: THE PRESIDENT: I think most of them have gone too, haven't they?
Sentence 21: Well, I got a report on them about a month ago, and directed that they be moved to happier climes, and I am sure that they would be.
Sentence 22: You say they haven't, but I will check up on it again.
Sentence 23: Q. Does it include W.P.B. men?
Sentence 24: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 25: Absolutely.
Sentence 26: There is no discrimination in favor of brains.
Sentence 27: (Laughter). .
Sentence 28: .
Sentence 29: Q. Is there anything you would care to say, Mr. President, about the U.S. Pacific Fleet's defeat of the Japanese Navy in the Solomons?
Sentence 30: THE PRESIDENT: No, except, of course, you can imagine I was very much upset hearing about the death of poor Dan Callaghan
Sentence 31: [Rear Admiral Daniel J. Callaghan, onetime Naval Aide to the President], who certainly did a glorious act taking a ten-thousand-ton cruiser up against a twenty-five—or thirty-thousand-ton battleship at point-blank range.
Sentence 32: The primary objective of the Southwest Pacific operations is to hold the present line, which runs roughly through New Guinea and Guadalcanal.
Sentence 33: And that is why I said it wasn't a decisive engagement, for the reason that if we had to fall back to the next line, we could stop them there; but I hope we can hold the present line.
Sentence 34: Now this action has stopped the latest Japanese offensive against that line.
Sentence 35: The last we know is what appeared in the papers, that Japan's ships, when last seen, were proceeding in the opposite direction.
Sentence 36: Therefore, it can be called a major victory. . . .
Sentence 37: Q. Mr. President, is any effort being made to change or modify the anti-Jewish laws and regulations now in effect in North Africa?
Sentence 38: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 39: Yes.
Sentence 40: That is included in this statement which I have for you.
Sentence 41: (After reading) I am afraid I am cutting a lot of good stuff from under the feet of people who don't think things through.
Sentence 42: It's all words of one syllable stuff—but it's powerful.
Sentence 43: Now this is in reply to your question:
(Continuing reading): "I have requested the liberation of all persons in North Africa who have been imprisoned because they opposed the efforts of the Nazis to dominate the world; and I have asked for the abrogation of all laws and decrees inspired by Nazi Governments or Nazi ideologists.
Sentence 44: Reports indicate the French of North Africa are subordinating all political questions to the formation of a common front against the common enemy.
Sentence 45: "
Q.E.D! (Laughter)
Q. Mr. President, is there anything to be said at this time about the position of General de Gaulle?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 46: No.
Sentence 47: No.
Sentence 48: I wouldn't worry about it.
Sentence 49: It's all right.
Sentence 50: Q. Mr. President, can you tell us what bearing this has on the application of Vichy diplomatic representatives in the United States to become accredited to Darlan?
Sentence 51: THE PRESIDENT: Never heard of it.
Sentence 52: Are they still here?
Sentence 53: Q. I understand so.
Sentence 54: THE PRESIDENT: I thought of putting in there, but I didn't, an old Balkan proverb, which I cannot have even attributed to me, because at the present time I don't like to call names any more than I have to.
Sentence 55: It's rather a nice old proverb of the Balkans that has, as I understand it, the full sanction of the Orthodox Church.
Sentence 56: This is off the record — completement — (Laughter) look it up in an encyclopedia of Balkan proverbs if you want to -it runs something like this.
Sentence 57: Mind you, this is okayed by the Church.
Sentence 58: It says, "My children, you are permitted in time of great danger to walk with the Devil until you have crossed the bridge."
Sentence 59: (Laughter)
Rather nice!
