Sentence 1: 1942 Excerpts From The Press Conference 39

Q.
Sentence 2: Do we get all those?
Sentence 3: (Indicating the large pile of papers in front of the President)
THE PRESIDENT: You may need them—those are pardons!
Sentence 4: (Laughter)
Sentence 5: You stepped right into it.
Sentence 6: (More laughter). .
Sentence 7: .
Sentence 8: I have one that I talked to Leo Crowley about yesterday, in regard to alien enemy-owned patents.
Sentence 9: And the Alien Property Custodian says that already a great many of them have come into his possession, especially in the chemical and the pharmaceutical field, and several thousand more will be acquired by them in the course of the next few months.
Sentence 10: We talked it over, and I asked him to take the necessary steps to make available for war production and national needs all patents that are controlled either directly or indirectly by our enemies, and that these patents should be made freely available for war purposes and national needs, and that there should be a continuation or new research started in connection with their maintenance and expansion.
Sentence 11: So he is starting in to do that, and to make an exhaustive survey of every known kind of enemy-controlled patent.
Sentence 12: We think that a great many of them, actually owned or controlled by enemies, are ostensibly in the hands of neutrals, or allies, or American citizens. . . .
Sentence 13: Q.
Sentence 14: In that same situation there has been brought out before one of the Senate committees—indicating that some of these patent agreements between German and American firms have clauses which would provide for their resumption after the war and it seems to be a moot question as to whether action by the Alien Property Custodian now will affect postwar use.
Sentence 15: Do you intend to take them and keep them for us?
Sentence 16: THE PRESIDENT: I think so, in view of the past experience of this Government.
Sentence 17: During the World War we took over alien enemy-owned patents, and after the war was over we took no steps to keep them from sliding back one way or the other into alien hands.
Sentence 18: And I think that a recurrence of that should be prevented at the end of this war.
Sentence 19: Q. Mr. President, what about bona fide American patents that are pooled with enemy alien patents, and are needed for the production of the materials?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 20: Well, my idea is we take everything we need, no matter what the technicalities are.
Sentence 21: The first thing to do is to win the war. . . .
Sentence 22: Q. Mr. President, have you any comment on Pierre Laval?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 23: I think I had better not.
Sentence 24: Q. One of his complaints is that the British are bombing French territory.
Sentence 25: Is he likely to have any complaint of that sort against the United States?
Sentence 26: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know.
Sentence 27: Q. How about the story about the bombing of Tokyo?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 28: Well, the only thing I can think of on that is this: you know occasionally I have a few people in to dinner, and generally in the middle of dinner some—it isn't an individual, it's just a generic term—some "sweet young thing" says, "Mr. President, couldn't you tell us about so and so?"
Sentence 29: Well, the other night this "sweet young thing" in the middle of supper said, "Mr. President, couldn't you tell us about that bombing?
Sentence 30: Where did those planes start from and go to?
Sentence 31: "
And I said, "Yes.
Sentence 32: I think the time has now come to tell you.
Sentence 33: They came from our new secret base at Shangri-La!"
Sentence 34: (Laughter)And she believed it!
Sentence 35: (More laughter)
Sentence 36: Q. Mr. President, is this the same young lady you talked about —(loud laughter interrupted)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 37: No.
Sentence 38: This is a generic term.
Sentence 39: It happens to be a woman.
Sentence 40: Q. Is it always feminine?
Sentence 41: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 42: I call it a "sweet young thing."
Sentence 43: Now when I talk about manpower that includes the women, and when I talk about a "sweet young thing," that includes young men. . . .
Sentence 44: Q. Would you care to go so far, Mr. President, as to admit that this Japanese —
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) Wait a minute- wait a minute.
Sentence 45: "The
Sentence 46: President Admits"—there's the headline.
Sentence 47: (Laughter) Go ahead now.
Sentence 48: Q. Would you care to go so far as to confirm the truth of the Japanese reports that Tokyo was bombed?
Sentence 49: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 50: No. I couldn't even do that.
Sentence 51: I am depending on Japanese reports very largely.
Sentence 52: (Laughter). . .
