Sentence 1: 1942 Excerpts From The Press Conference 32

MR. EARLY: (to the President)
Sentence 2: Look at these financial experts, sir!
Sentence 3: (Indicating press association newsmen in the front row)
Sentence 4: THE PRESIDENT: I think it's fine.
Sentence 5: Q.
Sentence 6: We are already groggy.
Sentence 7: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 8: A very small group.
Sentence 9: I am very glad to welcome the financial editors of the country!
Sentence 10: (Laughter)
Sentence 11: Q. We will be after this.
Sentence 12: THE PRESIDENT: Of course, very few newspapermen know the difference between a dollar and a dime, anyway.
Sentence 13: But then, on the other hand, very few Presidents do.
Sentence 14: (Laughter)
Sentence 15: So we start even.
Sentence 16: This is probably the biggest Budget in the history of any Nation, any time.
Sentence 17: I have no information about the Roman budgets.
Sentence 18: They were said to have been very high. . .
Sentence 19: .
Sentence 20: By the way, I have always felt uncertain as to whether to write a Message to Congress, or a speech, on New Year's.
Sentence 21: I always get mixed up—and you do, and the public does—between fiscal year and calendar year.
Sentence 22: I don't think the public understands the difference.
Sentence 23: You don't all understand the difference, and I don't understand the difference half the time.
Sentence 24: I make mistakes.
Sentence 25: And I think it would be a great reform that might come out of this situation, to make the fiscal year of the United States—and a lot of State governments, and municipal governments-conform to the calendar year.
Sentence 26: It is a thing, of course, that will require legislation.
Sentence 27: I have talked to some leaders about it lately, and they had all been talking in the same terms to get that change made.
Sentence 28: (Reading of excerpts from the Budget Message) . . .
Sentence 29: Q. Will there be published and made available records of Committee hearings or Committee reports on war appropriations?
Sentence 30: Those appropriations will provide, say, for 3,000 airplanes, and 3,000 tanks, et cetera?
Sentence 31: It will be a lump sum for the Army?
Sentence 32: THE PRESIDENT: Very largely, because-
Sentence 33: well, we all know the practical problem.
Sentence 34: So does every member of the Committee on the Hill.
Sentence 35: Q.
Sentence 36: But there will be hearings?
Sentence 37: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 38: Oh yes.
Sentence 39: Oh my, yes.
Sentence 40: Heavens, yes.
Q. All that information made available?
Sentence 41: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 42: For example, if we would ask for 3,000 airplanes, I doubt if we would get a breakdown on the types of those planes.
Sentence 43: On one particular supplemental bill it might be a majority of pursuit planes.
Sentence 44: On another supplemental hearing it might be a majority of bombers, or something like that.
Sentence 45: Now those things are details you can't give out, and that is one reason why, quite frankly, when you say 3,000 planes it may mean an awful lot, and it may not.
Sentence 46: I have been rather considering the idea, so as to give people a chance to see whether the step-up is a constant step-up month by month, of using, instead of the terms of planes, or ships, which may be large or small, of using "manhours."
Sentence 47: In other words, if we see that this country is every week increasing the man-hours, we know we are going places.
Sentence 48: But it is a fantastic term when you talk of man-hours.
Sentence 49: I don't get it.
Sentence 50: I still don't understand what ten million man-hours means.
Sentence 51: And I am open to suggestions.
Sentence 52: There is an old crossword puzzle word called an "erg,"-an e-r-g—a unit of work.
Sentence 53: I don't know what an erg is.
Sentence 54: If somebody could get that across in simpler terms than man-hours, it would be an awfully good thing.
Sentence 55: It is something that we need to have invented.
Sentence 56: We might all be thinking about it.
Sentence 57: I think I might almost offer a prize.
Sentence 58: Lloyd George, in '18, when I went to the other side, said, "You Americans have got inventive genius.
Sentence 59: Invent me a term to take the place of the word 'cooperation.'"
Sentence 60: Nobody has done it yet.
Sentence 61: It is an amazing thing.
Sentence 62: It is a horrible word, but we haven't got a substitute yet. . .
Sentence 63: .
(Alter continuing to read)
Sentence 64: I don't know whether it's the appropriate place, but I see no reason why you shouldn't know the fact that during the past two weeks, in talking to these various people, I was a bit appalled by the fact that so much of our production was still going into civilian use.
Sentence 65: We knew, for instance, last September, that out of the total production of steel in the United States, only about 25 percent of it was going into war production.
Sentence 66: And it was a large question, at that time, as to whether we shouldn't start new steel plants, to get more steel production.
Sentence 67: And we have started a few, but it takes a year and a half to build a steel plant before it starts turning things out.
Sentence 68: So we adopted the only other possibility, besides adding a little to existing production.
Sentence 69: And that was to cut more deeply into civilian production.
Sentence 70: I can't give you the exact figures, but from last September the percentage of defense steel has risen from about 25 percent first, to 30 percent, then to 35 percent, which still means that 65 percent is going into civilian use.
Sentence 71: So when Lord Beaverbrook first got over here, I said, "What are your percentages? ....
Sentence 72: Well," he said, "our percentages are very nearly turned around.
Sentence 73: Seventy-five percent of all the steel made in England is going into war use, and 25 percent to civilian use.
Sentence 74: "
Now this program will not get us as high as 75 percent of steel production for war use, but it will be a whole lot higher than the present 35 percent.
Sentence 75: My own estimate is that it will run probably as high as 55 percent, or even 60 percent, meaning that the civilian use of steel has got to be cut a lot more than it has been cut already.
Sentence 76: And the other thing I think I can bring out is that in making up these total estimates, of course I sent for the Budget people who were responsible.
Sentence 77: For example, I sent for the Maritime Commission, and I pointed out to them that one of the really vital things we have got to get is more tonnage, and while on the relative sinkings and buildings at the present time we are holding even, we have got to make substantial gains of building over losses.
Sentence 78: And I said to them, "What are you making now?"
Sentence 79: "Well, we are making over one million tons this year."
Sentence 80: I said, "What can you step it up to?"
Sentence 81: "Well," they said, "we can step it up to five million tons."
Sentence 82: I said, "Not enough.
Sentence 83: Go back and sharpen your pencils."
Sentence 84: That is just illustrative of the method.
Sentence 85: So they went back and sharpened their pencils, and they came back, and they said, "It will hurt terribly, but we believe that if we are told to we can turn out six million tons of shipping this year."
Sentence 86: I said, "Now you're talking."
Sentence 87: And I said, "All right now, for '43 what can you do?
Sentence 88: Can you turn out four million more tons, to a total of ten million tons of shipping?"
Sentence 89: And they scratched their heads, and came back and said, "Aye, aye, sir, we will do it."
Sentence 90: That's just an illustration.
Sentence 91: Then it came to planes, tanks, anti-aircraft guns.
Sentence 92: And I have been at them for two weeks, sometimes telling them to go back and sharpen their pencils.
Sentence 93: The other day I had a final conference with Knudsen and Nelson, and I gave them what I would like to see done—I knew it would be awfully hard work for them—and outlined the 60,000 planes this year, of which 45,000 would be combat planes.
Sentence 94: And I nearly took their breath away: "Can you make 125,000 planes next year, of which 100,000 would be combat planes?"
Sentence 95: And they talked it over awhile, and finally they came back, to give me the green light when I go up to Congress, and again they said, "Aye, aye, sir.
Sentence 96: We will do it, sir.
Sentence 97: "
Now that has been the result of the last two weeks, and it is a very magnificent thing that they are doing, because they are accepting probably the most difficult production job in all history.
Sentence 98: And if we get them—and I think we will—it will put us in the position to win the war. . .
Sentence 99: .
(After continuing to read)
Sentence 100: Right in there-
Sentence 101: neither here nor there—but it is one of those specific cases that sometimes crop up.
Sentence 102: It's a good illustration.
Sentence 103: I was home about four months ago, and a fellow from Poughkeepsie came to see me.
Sentence 104: He, and his father, and grandfather, ran a window sash and window blind works.
Sentence 105: The firm is a little over a hundred years old.
Sentence 106: And he came to me, and he said, "I am all out of orders.
Sentence 107: There is no more private building in Dutchess County.
Sentence 108: What will I do?
Sentence 109: We have got thirty first-class carpenters and cabinetmakers that have been with me for years and years."
Sentence 110: "Well," I said, "can't you do some war work?"
Sentence 111: He said, "I don't know.
Sentence 112: Are they ordering any wood cabinet work for this war?"
Sentence 113: " I don't think so.
Sentence 114: We use all steel.
Sentence 115: "
I brought him down here to Washington and explained the situation.
Sentence 116: And I got busy on this thing.
Sentence 117: I said, when I was getting my nose done, to Ross McIntire
Sentence 118: [Admiral Ross T. McIntire, White House physician and Surgeon General of the Navy], "You are just a little tiny cog in the Navy Department.
Sentence 119: Are you still buying steel medicine cabinets to put up on the wall?
Sentence 120: "
And he said, "Yes."
"Couldn't you use a wooden medicine cabinet?
Sentence 121: "
He said, "Sure."
"Are you still buying steel bookcases, and steel desks, for your hospitals?
Sentence 122: "He said, "Yes."
"Couldn't you use wooden ones just as well?"
"Sure."
Well, that's just one illustration.
Sentence 123: Then I sent for the Maritime Commission.
Sentence 124: I said, "On your ships, in the Officers' quarters or the Messes or the First Mate's, do you use wooden wainscoting?
Sentence 125: "They said, "Yes."
Sentence 126: "And where are you getting it?"
"I don't know.
Sentence 127: "
Sentence 128: The net result was that this man in Poughkeepsie came down here, and he was handed a list of wooden cabinet work that could be used for the Government, substitutes mostly.
Sentence 129: And he was asked, "Aren't there any other woodworking companies like yours in Hudson Valley that are going out of business for lack of work?"
Sentence 130: And he said, "Yes.
Sentence 131: One in Newburgh, one in Kingston, one in Hudson, and I think one in Peekskill that I know of.
Sentence 132: They are all in the same fix I am in.
Sentence 133: "
So they said to him, "All right.
Sentence 134: How much can the five companies in the Hudson River Valley take?"
Sentence 135: And he went back there, and they have got enough Government orders to keep 150 men steadily at work for at least a year on building wooden substitutes for the Government.
Sentence 136: And there are 150 skilled workers employed by the use of a little ingenuity.
Sentence 137: Now on that sort of thing we are beginning to get into our stride, but as you know, it means going and searching out the places where that kind of solution of the problem is needed.
Sentence 138: And, well, we are doing it as fast as we can. . . .
Sentence 139: (Continuing to read): "Civil departments and agencies.- The work of the civil departments and agencies is undergoing thorough reorientation.
Sentence 140: Established agencies will be used to the greatest possible extent for defense services.
Sentence 141: Many agencies have already made such readjustment.
Sentence 142: All Civil activities of the Government are being focused on the war program.
Sentence 143: "
Q. Mr. President, in that connection, I have heard it from friends who ask: As long as we are spending all this money for war, why do we need all these bureaus in the Commerce Department and the Agriculture Department, and so forth?
Sentence 144: Does this paragraph mean that?
Sentence 145: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 146: The answer is that it is awfully easy to say a broad, general thing like that, but when you come down to actual cases—well, for instance, we know that the Department of Agriculture has all kinds of bureaus in it.
Sentence 147: The Bureau of Animal Inspection— My goodness, can't we let that go until the end of the war?
Sentence 148: When you come down to it, ought we to let that stop during the period of the war?
Sentence 149: Oughtn't we to protect the health of the people?
Sentence 150: Oughtn't we to see to it?
Sentence 151: Look at the bureaus—the Bureau to Eliminate Ticks on Cattle, to Eliminate the Boll Weevil, to Eliminate the Peach Moth, and so forth and so on.
Sentence 152: The answer is that we are fighting nature all the time along those lines.
Sentence 153: The pine blister rust—they are fighting nature, in order to keep from getting overwhelmed by nature.
Sentence 154: And if we once let up on the fight, it means that the work will be just twice as hard.
Sentence 155: There will be an awful lot of ultimate damage caused by the pests of nature.
Sentence 156: We are cutting them.
Sentence 157: We are cutting all those bureaus, but we are still keeping the service going on. . . .
Sentence 158: (Continuing to read): "I favor an amendment to the Social Security Act which would modify matching grants to accord with the needs of the various States.
Sentence 159: Such legislation would probably not affect expenditures substantially during the next fiscal year."
Sentence 160: Well, you know what we have been trying to do on that.
Sentence 161: It is going to be a hard thing to get through a State like Georgia, which hasn't got the taxable values in the State.
Sentence 162: And therefore, when they come to a matching program with the Federal Government, their total is very, very low, if judged on a per capita basis.
Sentence 163: That does not take care of their sick, and blind, and unemployed, and relief people, and so forth and so on, because the State hasn't got the taxable values.
Sentence 164: In a State like New York, on the other hand, they have got the taxable values.
Sentence 165: They can put up much larger funds, again on a per capita basis, than the State of Georgia.
Sentence 166: Now the objective is that the Federal grants will be so distributed as to help the poorer States more greatly than the richer States.
Sentence 167: And that would not be left to the discretion of the State legislature, because a lot of them might try to save money on that basis, but would be based on some kind of an index figure, which in turn would be based on the per capita income of the individuals in all of the States.
Sentence 168: The States that have the highest per capita income would get the least, and the States that have the lowest income would get the most.
Sentence 169: Well, that is something we are shooting for, and have been for the last year. . .
Sentence 170: .
(Continuing to read): "Progressive taxes are the backbone of the Federal tax system.
Sentence 171: In recent years much progress has been made in perfecting income, estate, gift, and profit taxation but numerous loopholes still exist.
Sentence 172: Because some taxpayers use them to avoid taxes, other taxpayers must pay more.
Sentence 173: The higher the tax rates the more urgent it becomes to close the loopholes.
Sentence 174: Exemptions in estate and gift taxation should be lowered.
Sentence 175: The privileged treatment given certain types of business in corporate income taxation should be reexamined." . . .
Sentence 176: Q. Did you have in mind the average annual income?
Sentence 177: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 178: No. I tell you what I have in mind.
Sentence 179: I don't know whether it's this clause, or one further on.
Sentence 180: You take a corporation.
Sentence 181: Call it corporation X. I am thinking of Coca Cola.
Sentence 182: Now, what is the total amount of money, not confined to any rich people- widows and orphans- that ever went into X?
Sentence 183: Well, it is probably 10 percent of the capitalization of X.
Sentence 184: Now they plowed back profits, that is perfectly true, but nothing like to an amount equal to the total of their capitalization.
Sentence 185: Now, how do you value X?
Sentence 186: Do you value it on the profit they make every year?
Sentence 187: While on the original stock the payments that went in there were 100 percent, they are making this year the same amount that they made on the average of the past four years.
Sentence 188: So under the present law, they very largely escape any additional taxes.
Sentence 189: Now the question is: Should an original investor be entitled to 100 percent without any further penalty?
Sentence 190: There are any number of corporations of that kind.
Sentence 191: It was one of the well-recognized devices—it was not dishonest, everybody did it in the Golden Age of the twenties.
Sentence 192: And it is a question as to whether people should get 100 percent on their money year in and year out, or whether they should pay somewhat higher taxes on that enormous yield.
Sentence 193: And of course I failed, as you know, in the last tax bill to have anything done about it.
Sentence 194: I am still at it.
Sentence 195: Q.
Sentence 196: You mean a corporation, Mr. President, with a large fixed capitalization should not be penalized the same way, as far as taxes are concerned, as a company with smaller capitalization and larger earnings?
Sentence 197: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 198: That's right too.
Sentence 199: Now of course there are a lot of very small companies and individual businesses today that we all feel terribly sorry for, because they have certain debts, which under the present tax law they are absolutely unable to cut down.
Sentence 200: At the present time, under the present law, they can't spend any of their money for reduction of debt, and these companies are companies of very small capitalization.
Sentence 201: It is a real hardship on them.
Sentence 202: Q. You speak, Mr. President, of loopholes, here again, in the tax law.
Sentence 203: Would that include tax laws on community property that they tried to correct last year?
Sentence 204: Would you happen to have that in mind?
Sentence 205: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 206: No. I haven't had it in mind, but I have always thought that we should have exactly the same basis in all the States, instead of having four or five States with a separate kind of law.
Sentence 207: Q. May I interrupt, Mr. President?
Sentence 208: In that statement you mean to imply that you advocate one method of computing excess profits taxes, rather than in existing law?
Sentence 209: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 210: No. Have some kind of provision that will help some of the smaller companies, providing some method by which they can pay down a little on their debts.
Sentence 211: Remember that smaller companies' debts are in most cases loans from banks, callable at any time.
Sentence 212: Well, the bank is all right if it will renew the loan when it comes due—short term—one-year note—three-year note- they will be glad to renew the note if something has been paid down on the note toward its reduction.
Sentence 213: Whereas the larger companies—their debt is largely to their stockholders, and in very long-term bonds.
Sentence 214: They are not frightfully concerned about paying down on their debt.
Sentence 215: My family still has some bonds of the New York Central that are the direct lineal descendants of some bonds that my great-grandfather bought in 1841 to help build the railroad up the Hudson River.
Sentence 216: And we have still got them, and they have never paid off one cent of that capitalization in a hundred years, because it was the financial policy of railroads always to refund the debt, and never pay it off.
Sentence 217: Now that's an advantage that a big corporation has, but the little firm can't do that.
Sentence 218: The bank says, "No, no.". . .
Sentence 219: (Continuing to read): "All through the years of the depression I opposed general excise and sales taxes and I am as convinced as ever that they have no permanent place in the Federal tax system.
Sentence 220: In the face of the present financial and economic situation, however, we may later be compelled to reconsider the temporary necessity of such measures.
Sentence 221: "Selective excise taxes are frequently useful for curtailing the demand for consumers' goods, especially luxuries and semi-luxuries.
Sentence 222: They should be utilized when manufacture of the products competes with the war effort.
Sentence 223: "
Now don't go out and say that I am coming out for a sales tax.
Sentence 224: Oh no.
Sentence 225: I am talking about a selective excise tax, which is in a sense like the tax on your cigarettes.
Sentence 226: It is a selective excise tax.
Sentence 227: And I believe that we will have to go into that field more largely on a selective excise tax and sales tax on certain carefully selected things which now don't bear that burden.
Sentence 228: For three reasons: The first is to raise revenue; the second is to put a brake on inflation problems; and the third—at the end of this war-
Sentence 229: the ability to take that brake off if we run into a period of deflation. . .
Sentence 230: .
(Alter continuing to read)
Sentence 231: I may say on this Budget Message that there are two outstanding things that I am very, very much encouraged about, when I draw comparison with'17 and '18, and '19 and '20.
Sentence 232: As some of you remember, we were getting out our bonds at 4 1/4 percent rate.
Sentence 233: Today we are getting out our bonds, and notes, and bills, at an average of about 2 1/2 percent for the entire national debt.
Sentence 234: That is a very, very big saving over the conditions at that time.
Sentence 235: Furthermore, the reason I stress price control is that, as some of us remember, the prices of certain things went clear out of line, both during the first World War and after it.
Sentence 236: Two dollars for wheat.
Sentence 237: Thirty-five cents for cotton, and so forth and so on.
Sentence 238: Well, as a result of things getting out of line, through the failure of price control at that period, which was based, however, on things that happened before '17, a whole lot of other things were thrown out of line, to the ruination of millions of people.
Sentence 239: Some of those agricultural prices went up in '14 and '15 and '16, before we got into the war.
Sentence 240: Wheat got up two dollars and a half a bushel, and the price of any land that grew these things went up to a perfectly fantastic figure.
Sentence 241: Fifty-dollar land was selling at two-hundred dollars.
Sentence 242: And of course the financing of it had been mostly by mortgage or some kind of an obligation.
Sentence 243: And at the end of the period when, say, wheat dropped down from two dollars to forty or fifty cents a bushel, that land reverted to its original value.
Sentence 244: And the fellow that had bought it lost it, and then a whole chain of things happened.
Sentence 245: I remember in the 1920 campaign, when I started out west on my first trip, I realized that there was quite a lot of trouble among the cattle growers of the West.
Sentence 246: They had been encouraged to add to their herds, to get all the new calves that they possibly could.
Sentence 247: And the whole West was flooded with calves and cows.
Sentence 248: And I knew that I would run into trouble, and the reason was that the people who had lent them the money—the banks, which had been encouraged by the Treasury Department—were calling loans.
Sentence 249: So I wrote a letter to the Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Houston, and said, "Now, what will I say in my speeches to these cattle growers?"
Sentence 250: And I got back a letter—imagine my using it in the campaign—saying, "Dear Mr. Secretary, tell them the truth.
Sentence 251: Tell them that they have to be the vicarious sacrifice for a restoration of the country to normal financial positions."
Sentence 252: Well, I didn't use it.
Sentence 253: (Laughter)
Sentence 254: Now we want to avoid having cattle growers, and lots of other people, put in the same bad fix they were in at the end of the first World War.
Sentence 255: And we are thinking ahead.
Sentence 256: And I am perfectly convinced that even if the debt does go to 110 billion dollars, we will be able to pay it; partly because of the very much lowered cost of interest to the people of the country, and secondly by a scheme of taxation, a scheme of price control that will keep up the national income and enable us to reduce that debt in a relatively short time, just as we were reducing it up to '26, when we rescinded a whole lot of taxes and left the country burdened with a debt of somewhere around 21 or 22 billion dollars. . . .
