Sentence 1: 1942 Fireside Chat 5

My fellow Americans:
It is nearly five months since we were attacked at Pearl Harbor.
Sentence 2: For the two years prior to that attack this country had been gearing itself up to a high level of production of munitions.
Sentence 3: And yet our war efforts had done little to dislocate the normal lives of most of us.
Sentence 4: Since then we have dispatched strong forces of our Army and Navy, several hundred thousand of them, to bases and battle fronts thousands of miles from home.
Sentence 5: We have stepped up our war production on a scale that is testing our industrial power, our engineering genius, and our economic structure to the utmost.
Sentence 6: We have had no illusions about the fact that this is a tough job—and a long one.
Sentence 7: American warships are now in combat in the North and South Atlantic, in the Arctic, in the Mediterranean, in the Indian Ocean, and in the North and South Pacific.
Sentence 8: American troops have taken stations in South America, Greenland, Iceland, the British Isles, the Near East, the Middle East and the Far East, the continent of Australia, and many islands of the Pacific.
Sentence 9: American war planes, manned by Americans, are flying in actual combat over all the continents and all the oceans.
Sentence 10: On the European front the most important development of the past year has been without question the crushing counteroffensive on the part of the great armies of Russia against the powerful German Army.
Sentence 11: These Russian forces have destroyed and are destroying more armed power of our enemies—troops, planes, tanks, and guns—than all the other United Nations put together.
Sentence 12: In the Mediterranean area, matters remain on the surface much as they were.
Sentence 13: But the situation there is receiving very careful attention.
Sentence 14: Recently we received news of a change in government in what we used to know as the Republic of France—a name dear to the hearts of all lovers of liberty— a name and an institution which we hope will soon be restored to full dignity.
Sentence 15: Throughout the Nazi occupation of France, we have hoped for the maintenance of a French Government which would strive to regain independence, to reestablish the principles of "Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity," and to restore the historic culture of France.
Sentence 16: Our policy has been consistent from the very beginning.
Sentence 17: However, we are now greatly concerned lest those who have recently come to power may seek to force the brave French people into submission to Nazi despotism.
Sentence 18: The United Nations will take measures, if necessary, to prevent the use of French territory in any part of the world for military purposes by the Axis powers.
Sentence 19: The good people of France will readily understand that such action is essential for the United Nations to prevent assistance to the armies or navies or air forces of Germany, or Italy or Japan.
Sentence 20: The overwhelming majority of the French people understand that the fight of the United Nations is fundamentally their fight, that our victory means the restoration of a free and independent France—and the saving of France from the slavery which would be imposed upon her by her external enemies and by her internal traitors.
Sentence 21: We know how the French people really feel.
Sentence 22: We know that a deep-seated determination to obstruct every step in the Axis plan extends from occupied France through Vichy France all the way to the people of their colonies in every ocean and on every continent.
Sentence 23: Our planes are helping in the defense of French colonies today, and soon American Flying Fortresses will be fighting for the liberation of the darkened continent of Europe itself.
Sentence 24: In all the occupied countries there are men and women, and even little children, who have never stopped fighting, never stopped resisting, never stopped proving to the Nazis that their so-called "New Order" will never be enforced upon free peoples.
Sentence 25: In the German and Italian peoples themselves there is a growing conviction that the cause of Nazism and Fascism is hopeless—that their political and military leaders have led them along the bitter road which leads not to world conquest but to final defeat.
Sentence 26: They cannot fail to contrast the present frantic speeches of these leaders with their arrogant boastings of a year ago, and two years ago.
Sentence 27: On the other side of the world, in the Far East, we have passed through a phase of serious losses.
Sentence 28: We have inevitably lost control of a large portion of the Philippine Islands.
Sentence 29: But this whole Nation pays tribute to the Filipino and American officers and men who held out so long on Bataan Peninsula, to those grim and gallant fighters who still hold Corregidor, where the flag flies, and to the forces that are still striking effectively at the enemy on Mindanao and other islands.
Sentence 30: The Malayan Peninsula and Singapore are in the hands of the enemy; the Netherlands East Indies are almost entirely occupied, though resistance there continues.
Sentence 31: Many other islands are in the possession of the Japanese.
Sentence 32: But there is good reason to believe that their southward advance has been checked.
Sentence 33: Australia, New Zealand, and much other territory will be bases for offensive action—and we are determined that the territory that has been lost will be regained.
Sentence 34: The Japanese are pressing their northward advance against Burma with considerable power, driving toward India and China.
Sentence 35: They have been opposed with great bravery by small British and Chinese forces aided by American fliers.
Sentence 36: The news in Burma tonight is not good.
Sentence 37: The Japanese may cut the Burma Road; but I want to say to the gallant people of China that no matter what advances the Japanese may make, ways will be found to deliver airplanes and munitions of war to the armies of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek.
Sentence 38: We remember that the Chinese people were the first to stand up and fight against the aggressors in this war; and in the future a still unconquerable China will play its proper role in maintaining peace and prosperity, not only in eastern Asia but in the whole world.
Sentence 39: For every advance that the Japanese have made since they started their frenzied career of conquest, they have had to pay a very heavy toll in warships, in transports, in planes, and in men.
Sentence 40: They are feeling the effects of those losses.
Sentence 41: It is even reported from Japan that somebody has dropped bombs on Tokyo, and on other principal centers of Japanese war industries.
Sentence 42: If this be true, it is the first time in history that Japan has suffered such indignities.
Sentence 43: Although the treacherous attack on Pearl Harbor was the immediate cause of our entry into the war, that event found the American people spiritually prepared for war on a world-wide scale.
Sentence 44: We went into this war fighting.
Sentence 45: We know what we are fighting for.
Sentence 46: We realize that the war has become what Hitler originally proclaimed it to be- a total war.
Sentence 47: Not all of us can have the privilege of fighting our enemies in distant parts of the world.
Sentence 48: Not all of us can have the privilege of working in a munitions factory or a shipyard, or on the farms or in oil fields or mines, producing the weapons or the raw materials that are needed by our armed forces.
Sentence 49: But there is one front and one battle where everyone in the United States—every man, woman, and child—is in action, and will be privileged to remain in action throughout this war.
Sentence 50: That front is right here at home, in our daily lives, and in our daily tasks.
Sentence 51: Here at home everyone will have the privilege of making whatever self-denial is necessary, not only to supply our fighting men, but to keep the economic structure of our country fortified and secure during the war and after the war.
Sentence 52: This will require, of course, the abandonment not only of luxuries but of many other creature comforts.
Sentence 53: Every loyal American is aware of his individual responsibility.
Sentence 54: Whenever I hear anyone saying "The American people are complacent—they need to be aroused," I feel like asking him to come to Washington to read the mail that floods into the White House and into all departments of this Government.
Sentence 55: The one question that recurs through all these thousands of letters and messages is: "What more can I do to help my country in winning this war?
Sentence 56: To build the factories, to buy the materials, to pay the labor, to provide the transportation, to equip and feed and house the soldiers, sailors, and marines, and to do all the thousands of things necessary in a war—all cost a lot of money, more money than has ever been spent by any Nation at any time in the long history of the world.
Sentence 57: We are now spending, solely for war purposes, the sum of about $100,000,000 every day in the week.
Sentence 58: But, before this year is over, that almost unbelievable rate of expenditure will be doubled.
Sentence 59: All of this money has to be spent—and spent quickly—if we are to produce within the time now available the enormous quantities of weapons of war which we need.
Sentence 60: But the spending of these tremendous sums presents grave danger of disaster to our national economy.
Sentence 61: When your Government continues to spend these unprecedented sums for munitions month by month and year by year, that money goes into the pocketbooks and bank accounts of the people of the United States.
Sentence 62: At the same time raw materials and many manufactured goods are necessarily taken away from civilian use; and machinery and factories are being converted to war production.
Sentence 63: You do not have to be a professor of mathematics or economics to see that if people with plenty of cash start bidding against each other for scarce goods, the price of those goods goes up.
Sentence 64: Yesterday I submitted to the Congress of the United States a seven-point program of general principles which taken together could be called the national economic policy for attaining the great objective of keeping the cost of living down.
Sentence 65: I repeat them now to you in substance:
First.
Sentence 66: We must, through heavier taxes, keep personal and corporate profits at a low reasonable rate.
Sentence 67: Second.
Sentence 68: We must fix ceilings on prices and rents.
Sentence 69: Third.
Sentence 70: We must stabilize wages.
Sentence 71: Fourth.
Sentence 72: We must stabilize farm prices.
Fifth.
Sentence 73: We must put more billions into war bonds.
Sentence 74: Sixth.
Sentence 75: We must ration all essential commodities which are scarce.
Sentence 76: Seventh.
Sentence 77: We must discourage installment buying, and encourage paying off debts and mortgages.
Sentence 78: I do not think it is necessary to repeat what I said yesterday to the Congress in discussing these general principles.
Sentence 79: The important thing to remember is that each one of these points is dependent on the others if the whole program is to work.
Sentence 80: Some people are already taking the position that every one of the seven points is correct except the one point which steps on their own individual toes.
Sentence 81: A few seem very willing to approve self-denial—on the part of their neighbors.
Sentence 82: The only effective course of action is a simultaneous attack on all of the factors which increase the cost of living, in one comprehensive, all-embracing program covering prices, and profits, and wages, and taxes and debts.
Sentence 83: The blunt fact is that every single person in the United States is going to be affected by this program.
Sentence 84: Some of you will be affected more directly by one or two of these restrictive measures, but all of you will be affected indirectly by all of them.
Sentence 85: Are you a businessman, or do you own stock in a business corporation?
Sentence 86: Well, your profits are going to be cut down to a reasonably low level by taxation.
Sentence 87: Your income will be subject to higher taxes.
Sentence 88: Indeed in these days, when every available dollar should go to the war effort, I do not think that any American citizen should have a net income in excess of $25,000 per year after payment of taxes.
Sentence 89: Are you a retailer or a wholesaler or a manufacturer or a farmer or a landlord?
Sentence 90: Ceilings are being placed on the prices at which you can sell your goods or rent your property.
Sentence 91: Do you work for wages?
Sentence 92: You will have to forego higher wages four your particular job for the duration of the war.
Sentence 93: All of us are used to spending money for things that we want, things, however, which are not absolutely essential.
Sentence 94: We will all have to forego that kind of spending.
Sentence 95: Because we must put every dime and every dollar we can possibly spare out of our earnings into war bonds and stamps.
Sentence 96: Because the demands of the war effort require the rationing of goods of which there are not enough to go around.
Sentence 97: Because the stopping of purchases of nonessentials will release thousands of workers who are needed in the war effort.
Sentence 98: As I told the Congress yesterday, "sacrifice" is not exactly the proper word with which to describe this program of self-denial.
Sentence 99: When, at the end of this great struggle, we shall have saved our freeway of life, we shall have made no "sacrifice.
Sentence 100: "
Sentence 101: The price for civilization must be paid in hard work and sorrow and blood.
Sentence 102: The price is not too high.
Sentence 103: If you doubt it, ask those millions who live today under the tyranny of Hitlerisms.
Sentence 104: Ask the workers of France and Norway and the Netherlands, whipped to labor by the lash, whether the stabilization of wages is too great a "sacrifice.
Sentence 105: "
Ask the farmers of Poland and Denmark, of Czechoslovakia and France, looted of their livestock, starving while their own crops are stolen from their land, ask them whether "parity" prices are too great a "sacrifice."
Ask the businessmen of Europe, whose enterprises have been stolen from their owners, whether the limitation of profits and personal incomes is too great a "sacrifice."
Ask the women and children whom Hitler is starving whether the rationing of tires and gasoline and sugar is too great a "sacrifice.
Sentence 106: "
We do not have to ask them.
Sentence 107: They have already given us their agonized answers.
Sentence 108: This great war effort must be carried through to its victorious conclusion by the indomitable will and determination of the people as one great whole.
Sentence 109: It must not be impeded by the faint of heart.
Sentence 110: It must not be impeded by those who put their own selfish .
Sentence 111: interests above the interests of the Nation.
Sentence 112: It must not be impeded by those who pervert honest criticism into falsification of fact.
Sentence 113: It must not be impeded by self-styled experts either in economics or military problems who know neither true figures nor geography itself.
Sentence 114: It must not be impeded by a few bogus patriots who use the sacred freedom of the press to echo the sentiments of the propagandists in Tokyo and Berlin.
Sentence 115: And, above all, it shall not be imperiled by the handful of noisy traitors- betrayers of America, betrayers of Christianity itself—would-be dictators who in their hearts and souls have yielded to Hitlerism and would have this Republic do likewise.
Sentence 116: I shall use all of the executive power that I have to carry out the policy laid down.
Sentence 117: If it becomes necessary to ask for any additional legislation in order to attain our objective of preventing a spiral in the cost of living, I shall do so.
Sentence 118: I know the American farmer, the American workman, and the American businessman.
Sentence 119: I know that they will gladly embrace this economy and equality of sacrifice- satisfied that it is necessary for the most vital and compelling motive in all their lives -winning through to victory.
Sentence 120: Never in the memory of man has there been a war in which the courage, the endurance, and the loyalty of civilians played so vital a part.
Sentence 121: Many thousands of civilians all over the world have been and are being killed or maimed by enemy action.
Sentence 122: Indeed, it was the fortitude of the common people of Britain under fire which enabled that island to stand and prevented Hitler from winning the war in 1940.
Sentence 123: The ruins of London and Coventry and other cities are today the proudest monuments to British heroism.
Sentence 124: Our own American civilian population is now relatively safe from such disasters.
Sentence 125: And, to an ever increasing extent, our soldiers, sailors, and marines are fighting with great bravery and great skill on far distant fronts to make sure that we shall remain safe.
Sentence 126: I should like to tell you one or two stories about the men we have in our armed forces:
There is, for example, Dr. Corydon M. Wassell.
Sentence 127: He was a missionary, well known for his good works in China.
Sentence 128: He is a simple, modest, retiring man, nearly sixty years old, but he entered the service of his country and was commissioned a Lieutenant Commander in the Navy.
Sentence 129: Dr. Wassell was assigned to duty in Java caring for wounded officers and men of the cruisers Houston and Marblehead which had been in heavy action in the Java seas.
Sentence 130: When the Japanese advanced across the island, it was decided to evacuate as many as possible of the wounded to Australia.
Sentence 131: But about twelve of the men were so badly wounded that they could not be moved.
Sentence 132: Dr. Wassell remained with these men, knowing that he would be captured by the enemy.
Sentence 133: But he decided to make a last desperate attempt to get the men out of Java.
Sentence 134: He asked each of them if he wished to take the chance, and every one agreed.
Sentence 135: He first had to get the twelve men to the seacoast—fifty miles away.
Sentence 136: To do this, he had to improvise stretchers for the hazardous journey.
Sentence 137: The men were suffering severely, but Dr. Wassell kept them alive by his skill, and inspired them by his own courage.
Sentence 138: And as the official report said, Dr. Wassell was "almost like a Christ-like shepherd devoted to his flock.
Sentence 139: "
On the seacoast, he embarked the men on a little Dutch ship.
Sentence 140: They were bombed, they were machine-gunned by waves of Japanese planes.
Sentence 141: Dr. Wassell took virtual command of the ship, and by great skill avoided destruction, hiding in little bays and little inlets.
Sentence 142: A few days later, Dr. Wassell and his small flock of wounded men reached Australia safely.
Sentence 143: And today Dr. Wassell wears the Navy Cross.
Sentence 144: Another story concerns a ship rather than an individual man.
Sentence 145: You may remember the tragic sinking of the submarine, the U.S.S. Squalus, off the New England coast in the summer of 1939.
Sentence 146: Some of the crew were lost, but others were saved by the speed and the efficiency of the surface rescue crews.
Sentence 147: The Squalus itself was tediously raised from the bottom of the sea.
Sentence 148: She was repaired and put back into commission, and eventually she Sailed again under a new name, the U.S.S. Sailfish.
Sentence 149: Today, she is a potent and effective unit of our submarine fleet in the Southwest Pacific.
Sentence 150: The Sailfish has covered many thousands of miles in operations in those waters.
Sentence 151: She has sunk a Japanese destroyer.
Sentence 152: She has torpedoed a Japanese cruiser.
Sentence 153: She has made torpedo hits—two of them—on a Japanese aircraft carrier.
Sentence 154: Three of the enlisted men of our Navy who went down with the Squalus in 1939 and were rescued are today serving on the same ship, the U.S.S. Sailfish, in this war.
Sentence 155: It seems to me that it is heartening to know that the Squalus, once given up as lost, rose from the depths to fight for our country in time of peril.
Sentence 156: One more story that I heard only this morning:
This is a story of one of our Army Flying Fortresses operating in the western Pacific.
Sentence 157: The pilot of this plane is a modest young man, proud of his crew for one of the toughest fights a bomber has yet experienced.
Sentence 158: The bomber departed from its base, as part of a flight of five bombers, to attack Japanese transports that were landing troops against us in the Philippines.
Sentence 159: When they had gone about halfway to their destination, one of the motors of this bomber went out of commission.
Sentence 160: The young pilot lost contact with the other bombers.
Sentence 161: The crew, however, got the motor working again and the plane proceeded on its mission alone.
Sentence 162: By the time it arrived at its target the other four Flying Fortresses had already passed over, had dropped their bombs, and had stirred up the hornets' nest of Japanese "Zero" planes.
Sentence 163: Eighteen of these "Zero" fighters attacked our one Flying Fortress.
Sentence 164: Despite this mass attack, our plane proceeded on its mission, and dropped all of its bombs on six Japanese transports which were lined up along the docks.
Sentence 165: As it turned back on its homeward journey a running fight between the bomber and the eighteen Japanese pursuit planes continued for 75 miles.
Sentence 166: Four pursuit planes of the Japs attacked simultaneously at each side.
Sentence 167: Four were shot down with the side guns.
Sentence 168: During this fight, the bomber's radio operator was killed, the engineer's right hand was shot off, and one gunner was crippled, leaving only one man available to operate both side guns.
Sentence 169: Although wounded in one hand, this gunner alternately manned both side guns, bringing down three more Japanese "Zero" planes.
Sentence 170: While this was going on, one engine on the American bomber was shot out, one gas tank was hit, the radio was shot off, and the oxygen system was entirely destroyed.
Sentence 171: Out of eleven control cables all but four were shot away.
Sentence 172: The rear landing wheel was blown off entirely, and the two front wheels were both shot flat.
Sentence 173: The fight continued until the remaining Japanese pursuit ships exhausted their ammunition and turned back.
Sentence 174: With two engines gone and the plane practically out of control, the American bomber returned to its base after dark and made an emergency landing.
Sentence 175: The mission had been accomplished.
Sentence 176: The name of that pilot is Captain Hewitt T. Wheless, of the United States Army.
Sentence 177: He comes from a place called Menard, Texas-with a population of 2,375.
Sentence 178: He has been awarded the Distinguished Service Cross.
Sentence 179: And I hope that he is listening.
Sentence 180: These stories I have told you are not exceptional.
Sentence 181: They are typical examples of individual heroism and skill.
Sentence 182: As we here at home contemplate our own duties, our own responsibilities, let us think and think hard of the example which is being set for us by our fighting men.
Sentence 183: Our soldiers and sailors are members of well-disciplined units.
Sentence 184: But they are still and forever individuals—free individuals.
Sentence 185: They are farmers, and workers, businessmen, professional men, artists, clerks.
Sentence 186: They are the United States of America.
Sentence 187: That is why they fight.
Sentence 188: We too are the United States of America.
Sentence 189: That is why we must work and sacrifice.
Sentence 190: It is for them.
Sentence 191: It is for us.
Sentence 192: It is for victory.
