Sentence 1: 1942 Excerpts From The Press Conference 46

MR. DONALDSON: All in.
Sentence 2: THE PRESIDENT: All of the United Nations have been very much heartened by what looks to be a victory of major importance in the Egyptian-Libyan area.
Sentence 3: There isn't much news from there that hasn't been given out in the communiques, but things seem to be going extremely well.
Sentence 4: Outside of that, I don't think there is a thing.
Sentence 5: Q. Mr. President, do you know to what extent the Montgomery army was equipped from the United States?
Sentence 6: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know, except I would say to a minor degree.
Sentence 7: In other words, a great deal less than half.
Sentence 8: I couldn't give you the exact percentage.
Sentence 9: Of course, Britain has some of our planes and some of our tanks, but we mustn't get the idea that they were equipped with American equipment.
Sentence 10: It makes a nice headline, but unfortunately it isn't true.
Sentence 11: Q. Mr. President, do you consider any of our activities on Guadalcanal of major scale?
Sentence 12: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 13: No, I wouldn't, because the whole thing down there is on a limited scale, both on the Japanese side and our side, because of the same old thing, the problem of transporting men and equipment to that very limited area.
Sentence 14: Q. Mr. President, will those actions just be continued then, and where there are continued engagements will they be continued on a limited scale indefinitely, or would it eventually grow to major scale?
Sentence 15: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know.
Sentence 16: I think that is sort of a hypothetical question.
Sentence 17: It's awfully hard to answer.
Sentence 18: Can't tell.
Sentence 19: Q. Mr. President, is the importance of it necessarily to be gauged by the extent of it?
Sentence 20: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Sentence 21: The importance might be much greater than the extent.
Sentence 22: On the other hand, it might not be.
Sentence 23: You remember, I think it was the other day, the headlines used the word "decisive."
Sentence 24: Now that's an awfully sloppy term to use.
Sentence 25: It might be, and it might not.
Sentence 26: If you look at a map of the South Pacific, you will see that the Japanese have advanced island by island all the way south from the northern end of the Mandated Islands.
Sentence 27: We attempted, at the beginning of August, to prevent that island-by-island advance from going any further south.
Sentence 28: So far we have succeeded.
Sentence 29: If we keep on succeeding in preventing any further southward advance, it's fine—because if we keep on succeeding, we will have the possibility of starting a northward advance on our part.
Sentence 30: That will take a long, long time, because as I think I have told you before, it takes months to get a ship with men or munitions from the United States down there and back again.
Sentence 31: On the other hand, the Japanese line is also long.
Sentence 32: It takes weeks for them to get a ship from Japan down there and back again.
Sentence 33: Now, on the other hand, in words of one syllable, and don't misconstrue them, in case the Japanese were to isolate Guadalcanal—we hope they won't—and take it, it would mean that they had advanced one more island.
Sentence 34: That is not a decisive victory, because it merely means that the scene of action has been transferred to the next group of islands, their line thereby becoming a little bit longer, and ours remaining constant—it wouldn't be any longer.
Sentence 35: Therefore, it's an action of importance, but not decisive.
Sentence 36: You can't tell. . .
Sentence 37: .
Sentence 38: In other words, I honestly think that we all ought to be a bit careful and tend toward understatement rather than overstatement on all operations of that kind.
Sentence 39: On the other hand, I think the Egyptian fighting of the last two weeks could be called of major importance.
Sentence 40: I don't know that I would call even that decisive, in the light of past history.
Sentence 41: Remember then, this is the third time that something has happened there.
Sentence 42: The first time was when they smashed up the Italians, and they went on through and got pretty well past Tobruk.
Sentence 43: And then the Germans went in to help the Italians, and they pushed the British back as far as Tobruk.
Sentence 44: And then came the second British push, and it went clear through to Bengasi right across the whole hump of Libya.
Sentence 45: And having taken Bengasi, well we all thought it was not only a major victory but a decisive victory.
Sentence 46: Well, it was a major victory, but they ran too fast.
Sentence 47: They got way beyond their line of supplies.
Sentence 48: And suddenly Rommel struck them again and drove them back to Tobruk.
Sentence 49: That is why it wasn't decisive.
Sentence 50: Then the third thing that happened was that they started an offensive, roughly from the Tobruk line south, and they didn't get very far.
Sentence 51: And suddenly, without any warning, Rommel caught them off base and drove them clear back to the El Alamein line.
Sentence 52: And a lot of people—probably the Germans and the Italians- said, "This is the decisive victory."
Sentence 53: Well, it was a major victory, but it wasn't decisive, because the British held at the El Alamein line.
Sentence 54: Now this is really the fourth time they have moved out of the line, and apparently they have inflicted very heavy losses on Rommel's army.
Sentence 55: And we hope this time it will be not only a major victory but a decisive one, through the destruction of the enemy's forces.
Sentence 56: And we hope in the next week we will get as good news about the German-Italian retreat as we have been getting in the last two or three days. . . .
Sentence 57: Q. Mr. President, how do you account for Tuesday's election results?
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 59: Oh, I think all I can say on it is this, that I had a very pleasant surprise.
Sentence 60: Tuesday morning I went up to Hyde Park to vote, and when I got there I was perfectly delighted to find that the polling place was open.
Sentence 61: (Laughter)
Sentence 62: I leave the explanation of that remark to the press.
Sentence 63: (More laughter)
Sentence 64: Q. Do you think they expected to be closed?
Sentence 65: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 66: Evidently you don't read certain papers
Sentence 67: [referring to some papers who said that the President was going to Call off the 1942 elections]. . .
Sentence 68: .
Sentence 69: Q. Mr. President, will it make any difference in your attitude toward Congress?
Sentence 70: I mean, you have got a very close majority there, and—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) Why should it?
Sentence 71: I assume that the Congress of the United States is in favor of winning this war, just as the President is. . . .
Sentence 72: Q. Mr. President, we understand that the manpower report was transmitted to you.
Sentence 73: Have you completed your review and study of that report?
Sentence 74: THE PRESIDENT: I haven't read it.
Sentence 75: Only don't put it on the record.
Sentence 76: I have got it in my basket.
Sentence 77: Look at the basket!
Sentence 78: (stacked high with papers)
Sentence 79: I will probably get at it this afternoon or tomorrow morning.
Sentence 80: Q.
Sentence 81: How soon might we anticipate some action?
Sentence 82: THE PRESIDENT: I haven't any idea.
Sentence 83: I wouldn't even guess at it.
Sentence 84: On this whole manpower thing, anybody that studies it and thinks that they can, after studying it for a week, come to an intelligent conclusion, ought to be in St. Elizabeth's.
Sentence 85: You can't do it.
Sentence 86: You can't spend a day, or a week, in studying it and form a definite, detailed plan.
Sentence 87: And that is why it has taken quite a lot of time.
Sentence 88: But with that goes this other fact, that this whole manpower thing, with the exception of one or two portions of farm labor, is not at this time an emergency matter.
Sentence 89: As an example, in farming, practically all of the crops are in, with the exception of one or two very small areas.
Sentence 90: And the problem of farm labor is therefore not an emergency matter, except in dairying.
Sentence 91: There will be one or two other minor things.
Sentence 92: Dairying is difficult, because dairying goes on right through the winter, as well as the crop season.
Sentence 93: Everybody knows that.
Sentence 94: And outside of that we are not having any emergency problem affecting manpower in, for example, our factories, transportation, and similar things.
Sentence 95: We are going to have it, because we have probably got to put into industry this coming year four or five million people.
Sentence 96: But I don't know of any factory that is shut down because of lack of labor today.
Sentence 97: You have got to add the word "today."
Sentence 98: In other words, something has got to be done, but it isn't a matter of immediate emergency in the conduct of the war.
Sentence 99: It's going to be a serious thing unless we handle it soon.
Sentence 100: And that is why I can't give you any date.
Sentence 101: Neither am I able to formulate at this time any definite plan- there have been various plans submitted—it's an awfully difficult problem. . .
Sentence 102: .
Sentence 103: I see my friend the little Mayor [Fiorello LaGuardia of New York City] has stirred up a hornet's nest as to how to prepare coffee.
Sentence 104: We will have a lot of grave issues like that during the coming year.
Sentence 105: (Laughter)
Sentence 106: What I am a little afraid of is that somebody will raise the issue that was paramount in this country a few years ago, as to whether one should "crumble" or "dunk" the doughnut.
Sentence 107: (Continued laughter)
Sentence 108: Now those are very important things in our national life.
Sentence 109: And it's part of the grand sense of humor of the American people, and it's all to the good.
Sentence 110: Q. Mr. President, it's probably useless to ask you on this matter, but does the forty-hour week have anything to do with this manpower?
Sentence 111: Senator W. Lee O'Daniel has introduced a bill to repeal the forty-hour week.
Sentence 112: THE PRESIDENT: We haven't got a forty-hour week.
Sentence 113: Most of the people in the very important production are working 48 hours.
Sentence 114: Q. (interjecting) Yes.
Sentence 115: THE PRESIDENT: (continuing)
Sentence 116: And I think that the average of the important production is around—between 46 and 47 hours a week.
Sentence 117: Q. O'Daniel wants to work six days a week twelve hours a day, sir.
Sentence 118: THE PRESIDENT: You know, really, on that working six days a week and twelve hours a day, there is one thing which I didn't mention about this last trip, and that was that quite a number of people in different plants told me that they have the problem—like any big plant that employs forty or fifty or sixty thousand people—of a certain percentage of the workers not turning up in the morning.
Sentence 119: And in two or three of these plants when those workers come in the next day, they are asked voluntarily to sign a little card, saying why they didn't turn up the previous day.
Sentence 120: And it's interesting that where workers have been working overtime, up in some cases to 56 hours a week that the reasons given for not turning up on these cards are that they were too tired.
Sentence 121: Now we all know the very careful studies that have been made of production in Germany; and that after you work anybody over a certain definite period, depending a little on the work that is done, after the first few weeks or the first few months you don't get any more production with a very, very long week— with a lot of overtime—than you do in a shorter week.
Sentence 122: Now people ought to recognize it.
Sentence 123: It is a fact that has been proved in England, over here, and in Germany.
Sentence 124: Right along that line we got reports last spring, from Germany, that they were very greatly increasing the weekly hours of work in certain munitions plants from which they had to have the munitions; and that they started this great increase in the hours per week, sometime in the spring.
Sentence 125: And for about two months the total production showed a great increase.
Sentence 126: At the end of two months it started to slide downhill, until the time came in Germany when, on a greatly increased work week- working as high as seventy or eighty hours a week- after the people had got thoroughly tired and exhausted, the output was not so great as when they had been working forty-eight hours a week.
Sentence 127: Now those reports obtained by the intelligence services have come in in such volume that they look to be true, that German production in the last few months has fallen off, in spite of the much longer work week. . . .
