Sentence 1: 1942 Fireside Chat 4

My fellow Americans:
Sentence 2: As you know, I have recently come back from a trip of inspection of camps and training stations and war factories.
Sentence 3: The main thing that I observed on this trip is not exactly news.
Sentence 4: It is the plain fact that the American people are united as never before in their determination to do a job and to do it well.
Sentence 5: This whole Nation of 130,000,000 free men, women, and children is becoming one great fighting force.
Sentence 6: Some of us are soldiers or sailors, some of us are civilians.
Sentence 7: Some of us are fighting the war in airplanes five miles above the continent of Europe or the islands of the Pacific—and some of us are fighting it in mines deep down in the earth of Pennsylvania or Montana.
Sentence 8: A few of us are decorated with medals for heroic achievement, but all of us can have that deep and permanent inner satisfaction that comes from doing the best we know how—each of us playing an honorable part in the great struggle to save our democratic civilization.
Sentence 9: Whatever our individual circumstances or opportunities—we are all in it, and our spirit is good, and we Americans and our allies are going to win—and do not let anyone tell you anything different.
Sentence 10: That is the main thing that I saw on my trip around the country-unbeatable spirit.
Sentence 11: If the leaders of Germany and Japan could have come along with me, and had seen what I saw, they would agree with my conclusions.
Sentence 12: Unfortunately, they were unable to make the trip with me.
Sentence 13: And that is one reason why we are carrying our war effort overseas—to them.
Sentence 14: With every passing week the war increases in scope and intensity.
Sentence 15: That is true in Europe, in Africa, in Asia, and on all the seas.
Sentence 16: The strength of the United Nations is on the upgrade in this war.
Sentence 17: The Axis leaders, on the other hand, know by now that they have already reached their full strength, and that their steadily mounting losses in men and material cannot be fully replaced.
Sentence 18: Germany and Japan are already realizing what the inevitable result will be when the total strength of the United Nations hits them—at additional places on the earth's surface.
Sentence 19: [See APP note.]
Sentence 20: One of the principal weapons of our enemies in the past has been their use of what is called the "War of Nerves."
Sentence 21: They have spread falsehood and terror; they have started fifth columns everywhere; they have duped the innocent; they have fomented suspicion and hate between neighbors; they have aided and abetted those people in other Nations- including our own-whose words and deeds are advertised from Berlin and Tokyo as proof of our disunity.
Sentence 22: The greatest defense against all such propaganda, of course, is the common sense of the common people- and that defense is prevailing.
Sentence 23: The "War of Nerves" against the United Nations is now turning into a boomerang.
Sentence 24: For the first time, the Nazi propaganda machine is on the defensive.
Sentence 25: They begin to apologize to their own people for the repulse of their vast forces at Stalingrad, and for the enormous casualties they are suffering.
Sentence 26: They are compelled to beg their overworked people to rally their weakened production.
Sentence 27: They even publicly admit, for the first time, that Germany can be fed only at the cost of stealing food from the rest of Europe.
Sentence 28: They are proclaiming that a second front is impossible; but, at the same time, they are desperately rushing troops in all directions, and stringing barbed wire all the way from the coasts of Finland and Norway to the islands of the eastern Mediterranean.
Sentence 29: Meanwhile, they are driven to increase the fury of their atrocities.
Sentence 30: The United Nations have decided to establish the identity of those Nazi leaders who are responsible for the innumerable acts of Savagery.
Sentence 31: As each of these criminal deeds is committed, it is being carefully investigated; and the evidence is being relentlessly piled up for the future purposes of justice.
Sentence 32: We have made it entirely clear that the United Nations seek no mass reprisals against the populations of Germany or Italy or Japan.
Sentence 33: But the ringleaders and their brutal henchmen must be named, and apprehended, and tried in accordance with the judicial processes of criminal law.
Sentence 34: There are now millions of Americans in army camps, in naval stations, in factories, and in shipyards.
Sentence 35: Who are these millions upon whom the life of our country depends?
Sentence 36: What are they thinking?
Sentence 37: What are their doubts?
Sentence 38: What are their hopes?
Sentence 39: And how is the work progressing?
Sentence 40: The Commander in Chief cannot learn all of the answers to these questions in Washington.
Sentence 41: And that is why I made the trip I did.
Sentence 42: It is very easy to say, as some have said, that when the President travels through the country he should go with a blare of trumpets, with crowds on the sidewalks, with batteries of reporters and photographers—talking and posing with all of the politicians of the land.
Sentence 43: But having had some experience in this war and in the last war, I can tell you very simply that the kind of trip I took permitted me to concentrate on the work I had to do without expending time, meeting all the demands of publicity.
Sentence 44: And—I might add—it was a particular pleasure to make a tour of the country without having to give a single thought to politics.
Sentence 45: I expect to make other trips for similar purposes, and I shall make them in the same way.
Sentence 46: In the last war, I had seen great factories; but until I saw some of the new present-day plants, I had not thoroughly visualized our American war effort.
Sentence 47: Of course, I saw only a small portion of all our plants, but that portion was a good cross section, and it was deeply impressive.
Sentence 48: The United States has been at war for only ten months, and is engaged in the enormous task of multiplying its armed forces many times.
Sentence 49: We are by no means at full production level yet.
Sentence 50: But I could not help asking myself on the trip, where would we be today if the Government of the United States had not begun to build many of its factories for this huge increase more than two years ago—more than a year before war was forced upon us at Pearl Harbor.
Sentence 51: We have also had to face the problem of shipping.
Sentence 52: Ships in every part of the world continue to be sunk by enemy action.
Sentence 53: But the total tonnage of ships coming out of American, Canadian, and British shipyards, day by day, has increased so fast that we are getting ahead of our enemies in the bitter battle of transportation.
Sentence 54: In expanding our shipping, we have had to enlist many thousands of men for our merchant marine.
Sentence 55: These men are serving magnificently.
Sentence 56: They are risking their lives every hour so that guns and tanks and planes and ammunition and food may be carried to the heroic defenders of Stalingrad and to all the United Nations' forces all over the world.
Sentence 57: A few days ago I awarded the first Maritime Distinguished Service Medal to a young man- Edward F. Cheney of Yeadon, Pennsylvania—who had shown great gallantry in rescuing his comrades from the oily waters of the sea after their ship had been torpedoed.
Sentence 58: There will be many more such acts of bravery.
Sentence 59: In one sense my recent trip was a hurried one, out through the Middle West, to the Northwest, down the length of the Pacific coast, and back through the Southwest and the South.
Sentence 60: In another sense, however, it was a leisurely trip, because I had the opportunity to talk to the people who are actually doing the work—management and labor alike—on their own home grounds.
Sentence 61: And it gave me a fine chance to do some thinking about the major problems of our war effort on the basis of first things first.
Sentence 62: As I told the three press association representatives who accompanied me, I was impressed by the large proportion of women employed—doing skilled manual labor running machines.
Sentence 63: As time goes on, and many more of our men enter the armed forces, this proportion of women will increase.
Sentence 64: Within less than a year from now there will probably be as many women as men working in our war production plants.
Sentence 65: I had some enlightening experiences relating to the old saying of us men that curiosity—inquisitiveness—is stronger among women.
Sentence 66: I noticed, frequently, that when we drove unannounced down the middle aisle of a great plant full of workers and machines, the first people to look up from their work were the men—and not the women.
Sentence 67: It was chiefly the men who were arguing as to whether that fellow in the straw hat was really the President' or not.
Sentence 68: So having seen the quality of the work and of the workers on our production lines—and coupling these firsthand observations with the reports of actual performance of our weapons on the fighting fronts—I can say to you that we are getting ahead of our enemies in the battle of production.
Sentence 69: And of great importance to our future production was the effective and rapid manner in which the Congress met the serious problem of the rising cost of living.
Sentence 70: It was a splendid example of the operation of democratic processes in wartime.
Sentence 71: The machinery to carry out this act of the Congress was put into effect within twelve hours after the bill was signed.
Sentence 72: The legislation will help the cost-of-living problems of every worker in every factory and on every farm in the land.
Sentence 73: In order to keep stepping up our production, we have had to add millions of workers to the total labor force of the Nation.
Sentence 74: And as' new factories come into operation, we must find additional millions of workers.
Sentence 75: This presents a formidable problem in the mobilization of manpower.
Sentence 76: It is not that we do not have enough people in this country to do the job.
Sentence 77: The problem is to have the right numbers of the right people in the right places at the right time.
Sentence 78: We are learning to ration materials; and we must now learn to ration manpower.
Sentence 79: The major objectives of a sound manpower policy are:
Sentence 80: First, to select and train men of the highest fighting efficiency needed for our armed forces in the achievement of victory over our enemies in combat.
Sentence 81: Second, to man our war industries and farms with the workers needed to produce the arms and munitions and food required by ourselves and by our fighting allies to win this war.
Sentence 82: In order to do this, we shall be compelled to stop workers from moving from one war job to another as a matter of personal preference; to stop employers from stealing labor from each other; to use older men, and handicapped people, and more women, and even grown boys and girls, wherever possible and reasonable, to replace men of military age and fitness; to train new personnel for essential war work; and to stop the wastage of labor in all non-essential activities.
Sentence 83: There are many other things that we can do, and do immediately, to help meet this manpower problem.
Sentence 84: The school authorities in all the States should work out plans to enable our high school students to take some time from their school year, and to use their summer vacations, to help farmers raise and harvest their crops, or to work somewhere in the war industries.
Sentence 85: This does not mean closing schools and stopping education.
Sentence 86: It does mean giving older students a better opportunity to contribute their bit to the war effort.
Sentence 87: Such work will do no harm to the students.
Sentence 88: People should do their work as near their homes as possible.
Sentence 89: We cannot afford to transport a single worker into an area where there is already a worker available to do the job.
Sentence 90: In some communities, employers dislike to employ women.
Sentence 91: In others they are reluctant to hire Negroes.
Sentence 92: In still others, older men are not wanted.
Sentence 93: We can no longer afford to indulge such prejudices or practices.
Sentence 94: Every citizen wants to know what essential war work he can do the best.
Sentence 95: He can get the answer by applying to the nearest United States Employment Service office.
Sentence 96: There are 4,500 of these offices throughout the Nation.
Sentence 97: They form the corner grocery stores of our manpower system.
Sentence 98: This network of employment offices is prepared to advise every citizen where his skills and labors are needed most, and to refer him to an employer who can utilize them to best advantage in the war effort.
Sentence 99: Perhaps the most difficult phase of the manpower problem is the scarcity of farm labor in many places.
Sentence 100: I have seen evidences of the fact, however, that the people are trying to meet it as well as possible.
Sentence 101: In one community that I visited, a perishable crop was harvested by turning out the whole of the high school for three or four days.
Sentence 102: And in another community of fruit growers the usual Japanese labor was not available; but when the fruit ripened, the banker, the butcher, the lawyer, the garage man, the druggist, the local editor, and in fact every able-bodied man and woman in the town, left their occupations, and went out, gathered the fruit, and sent it to market.
Sentence 103: Every farmer in the land must realize fully that his production is part of war production, and that he is regarded by the Nation as essential to victory.
Sentence 104: The American people expect him to keep his production up, and even to increase it.
Sentence 105: We will use every effort to help him to get labor; but, at the same time, he and the people of his community must use ingenuity and cooperative effort to produce crops, and livestock and dairy products.
Sentence 106: It may be that all of our volunteer effort—however well intentioned and well administered—will not suffice wholly to solve this problem.
Sentence 107: In that case, we shall have to adopt new legislation.
Sentence 108: And if this is necessary, I do not believe that the American people will shrink from it.
Sentence 109: In a sense, every American, because of the privilege of his citizenship, is a part of the Selective Service.
Sentence 110: The Nation owes a debt of gratitude to the Selective Service boards.
Sentence 111: The successful operation of the Selective Service System and the way it has been accepted by the great mass of our citizens give us confidence that, if necessary, the same principle could be used to solve any manpower problem.
Sentence 112: And I want to say also a word of praise and thanks to the more than 10,000,000 people, all over the country, who have volunteered for the work of civilian defense- and who are working hard at it.
Sentence 113: They are displaying unselfish devotion in the patient performance of their often tiresome and always anonymous tasks.
Sentence 114: In doing this important neighborly work they are helping to fortify our national unity and our real understanding of the fact that we are all involved in this war.
Sentence 115: Naturally, on my trip I was most interested in watching the training of our fighting forces.
Sentence 116: All of our combat units that go overseas must consist of young, strong men who have had thorough training.
Sentence 117: An Army Division that has an average age of 23 or 24 is a better fighting unit than one which has an average age of 33 or 34.
Sentence 118: The more of such troops we have in the field, the sooner the war will be won, and the smaller will be the cost in casualties.
Sentence 119: Therefore, I believe that it will be necessary to lower the present minimum age limit for Selective Service from twenty years down to eighteen.
Sentence 120: We have learned how inevitable that is and how important to the speeding up of victory.
Sentence 121: I can very thoroughly understand the feelings of all parents whose sons have entered our armed forces.
Sentence 122: I have an appreciation of that feeling—and so has my wife.
Sentence 123: I want every father and every mother who has a son in the service to know—again, from what I have seen with my own eyes—that the men in the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps are receiving today the best possible training, equipment, and medical care.
Sentence 124: And we will never fail to provide for the spiritual needs of our officers and men under the Chaplains of our armed services.
Sentence 125: Good training will save many, many lives in battle.
Sentence 126: The highest rate of casualties is always suffered by units comprised of inadequately trained men.
Sentence 127: We can be sure that the combat units of our Army and Navy are well manned, well equipped, and well trained.
Sentence 128: Their effectiveness in action will depend upon the quality of their leadership, and upon the wisdom of the strategic plans on which all military operations are based.
Sentence 129: I can say one thing about these plans of ours: They are not being decided by the typewriter strategists who expound their views in the press or on the radio.
Sentence 130: One of the greatest of American soldiers, Robert E. Lee, once remarked on the tragic fact that in the war of his day all of the best generals were apparently working on newspapers instead of in the Army.
Sentence 131: And that seems to be true in all wars.
Sentence 132: The trouble with the typewriter strategists is that, while they may be full of bright ideas, they are not in possession of much information about the facts or problems of military operations.
Sentence 133: We, therefore, will continue to leave the plans for this war to the military leaders.
Sentence 134: The military and naval plans of the United States are made by the Joint Staff of the Army and Navy which is constantly in session in Washington.
Sentence 135: The Chiefs of this Staff are Admiral Leahy, General Marshall, Admiral King, and General Arnold.
Sentence 136: They meet and confer regularly with representatives of the British Joint Staff, and with representatives of Russia, China, The Netherlands, Poland, Norway, the British Dominions and other Nations working in the common cause.
Sentence 137: Since this unity of operations was put into effect last January, there has been a very substantial agreement among these planners, all of whom are trained in the profession of arms—air, sea, and land—from their early years.
Sentence 138: As Commander in Chief I have at all times also been in substantial agreement.
Sentence 139: As I have said before, many major decisions of strategy have been made.
Sentence 140: One of them—on which we have all agreed—relates to the necessity of diverting enemy forces from Russia and China to other theaters of war by new offensives against Germany and Japan.
Sentence 141: An announcement of how these offensives are to be launched, and when, and where, cannot be broadcast over the radio at this time.
Sentence 142: We are celebrating today the exploit of a bold and adventurous Italian—Christopher Columbus—who with the aid of Spain opened up a new world where freedom and tolerance and respect for human rights and dignity provided an asylum for the oppressed of the Old World.
Sentence 143: Today, the sons of the New World are fighting in lands far distant from their own America.
Sentence 144: They are fighting to save for all mankind, including ourselves, the principles which have flourished in this New World of freedom.
Sentence 145: We are mindful of the countless millions of people whose future liberty and whose very lives depend upon permanent victory for the United Nations.
Sentence 146: There are a few people in this country who, when the collapse of the Axis begins, will tell our people that we are safe once more; that we can tell the rest of the world to "stew in its own juice"; that never again will we help to pull "the other fellow's chestnuts from the fire"; that the future of civilization can jolly well take care of itself insofar as we are concerned.
Sentence 147: But it is useless to win battles if the cause for which we fight these battles is lost.
Sentence 148: It is useless to win a war unless it stays won.
Sentence 149: We, therefore, fight for the restoration and perpetuation of faith and hope and peace throughout the world.
Sentence 150: The objective of today is clear and realistic.
Sentence 151: It is to destroy completely the military power of Germany, Italy, and Japan to such good purpose that their threat against us and all the other United Nations cannot be revived a generation hence.
Sentence 152: We are united in seeking the kind of victory that will guarantee that our grandchildren can grow and, under God, may live their lives, free from the constant threat of invasion, destruction, slavery, and violent death.
