Sentence 1: 1942 Excerpts From The Press Conference 27

Q. Mr. President, is there anything that you can say about the general progress of war production?
Sentence 2: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 3: No. I don't think so.
Sentence 4: I might have something to say about it if I had time to work it up for you.
Sentence 5: I mean it's all right.
Sentence 6: I can say that on the whole it is getting on very well, but that is not terribly exciting.
Sentence 7: Q.
Sentence 8: I was wondering, sir, if it might have reached the point where information would not be so hurtful to the enemy?
Sentence 9: THE PRESIDENT: I would think that period is coming, and that we are getting to the point where probably we can give a few more details. . . .
Sentence 10: Q. Mr. President, is there anything you could say or add to the picture possibly of the [Combined] Food Board, such as when you spoke of the lend-lease you spoke of the man next door with the garden hose.
Sentence 11: This might be this piling up of food in the United Kingdom, and each outfit take what was required, or that we shift it back and forth?
Sentence 12: Is there anything you could explain about that?
Sentence 13: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 14: Yes.
Sentence 15: I would say that on the question of food that will take in production of all of the United Nations, and see where there are certain shortages.
Sentence 16: Well, those shortages, of course, will have an effect on the other side of the food problem, which is the going without—the rationing of food, or the sending of surpluses from one place to another.
Sentence 17: It will take up the problems of transportation practically all over the world.
Sentence 18: And by pooling all of our information, and getting totals for all our needs, I am inclined to think that it will give a more correct picture on allocation of food, thereby perhaps in many cases avoiding unnecessary hardships and rationing.
Sentence 19: Q. Think we could break some of our own surpluses, for instance?
Sentence 20: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 21: Yes.
Sentence 22: Yes.
Sentence 23: I always think of a story a great many years ago, in 1918.
Sentence 24: I was staying at a country house in England, to which a number of the British Cabinet had been invited.
Sentence 25: And they spent all Saturday evening indoctrinating me on all of the terrible hardships that people in England had gone through.
Sentence 26: They hadn't had this to eat or that to drink, and so forth, for a long, long time.
Sentence 27: They hadn't had any butter, and they hadn't had any bacon, and so forth.
Sentence 28: They had to really tighten their belts enormously.
Sentence 29: And I was being indoctrinated because I was the first "near" Cabinet member to go to the other side in the war.
Sentence 30: And the next morning I was late for breakfast, and sat down, and suddenly realized that all the food was on the sideboard, like most British breakfasts.
Sentence 31: And I went over to it, and the first hot dish I took the cover off was just piled high with bacon.
Sentence 32: (Laughter)
Sentence 33: So I filled my plate with bacon and sat down.
Sentence 34: And the hostess said, "What!
Sentence 35: Only bacon?"
Sentence 36: I said, "Yes."
Sentence 37: I said, "You know, at home I have gone without bacon for a year and a half, in order that you good people might have it."
Sentence 38: (Laughter)
There are all kinds of things of that kind where we can get, I think, a more even distribution.
Sentence 39: We may have to give up some things to other United Nations, and by a general process of distribution on a fair basis with everybody that is concerned in this war.
Sentence 40: I think everybody will be happier.
Sentence 41: I think this thing is going to help. . . .
Sentence 42: Q. Is there anything on the rubber situation, or shall we wait for a few months on that?
Sentence 43: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 44: No. I am trying to get facts on that.
Sentence 45: Q. Are you making a Fireside Chat on that?
Sentence 46: THE PRESIDENT: I have no idea.
Sentence 47: I suppose there are four or five ways in which I can get certain things to the American public: through the press, through the radio, somebody else's voice, or my own voice.
Sentence 48: I don't know.
Sentence 49: Q.
Sentence 50: The rubber situation ties in with gasoline rationing, of course, does it not?
Sentence 51: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 52: In order that there won't be any more pure guesswork, the reason I am asking for a little time to turn around is that no two accounts are identical.
Sentence 53: And I think there is one thing that can be said for background, if you like, and that is that the principal problem that is national in its scope—every part of the country—is the rubber problem.
Sentence 54: That is a problem that involves the whole country.
Sentence 55: And one of the first things that I am trying to get hold of—I think we may get something on it in a few days—is the question about how much scrap rubber there is in the United States.
Sentence 56: And there no two people agree.
Sentence 57: Well, it makes an awful lot of difference in the long run as to whether this country has got, in the form of old tires and old rubber lying around, the lowest estimate of the experts, in which case the situation is very serious, or whether the country has got lying around the highest of the experts' estimates, in which case the situation confronting the country, for military purposes, is not so grave.
Sentence 58: Now I suppose I have had as much information on what that scrap rubber is as anybody in the world- anybody, in Congress or out, in a column or out.
Sentence 59: (Laughter)
Sentence 60: And I don't know.
Sentence 61: I don't know who is right.
Sentence 62: (Then pointing to himself)
Sentence 63: Now here is the greatest expert on it in the United States, and he doesn't know!
Sentence 64: (More laughter)
Sentence 65: And I want to find out.
Sentence 66: And the only way I think that I can find out is to start a "Pick-Up-the-Rubber" campaign.
Sentence 67: And that is what I am working on now: a short, quick, snappy campaign to bring in all the scrap rubber that there is in the United States.
Sentence 68: And when you get through with it, we will all know.
Sentence 69: And I can't hazard a guess.
Sentence 70: Now when that thing is over, we will have complete and answered one of the statistical figures that nobody knows what is right and what is wrong.
Sentence 71: Q. How long will that take, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 72: Oh, I would like to do it in two weeks.
Sentence 73: Q. Will it be compulsory?
Sentence 74: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 75: What?
Sentence 76: Q. Will it be compulsory or voluntary?
Sentence 77: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 78: Well, it will be—I don't know.
Sentence 79: I suppose it will be voluntary, in the sense that if you don't do it—(here the President paused) in effect it will be compulsory.
Sentence 80: (Laughter)
Sentence 81: Well now, the other part of the story is this.
Sentence 82: The use of gasoline is, at the present time, only—taken in itself, and only in itself—a problem of the eastern seaboard, because there isn't enough gasoline to go around.
Sentence 83: That's all.
Sentence 84: Plenty of gasoline in nearly every other part of the country.
Sentence 85: So I don't think that we should confuse the rubber problem with the gasoline problem at this time.
Sentence 86: We know we have to ration gasoline east of the Alleghenies, because there isn't enough to go around.
Sentence 87: And then the third thing I think that we can say is that no matter what the circumstance is, no matter whether this "Pick-Up-the-Rubber" campaign brings in the highest estimated amount or not, even then we are going to have a rubber shortage which is going to be so serious all over the country that there won't be enough tires to go around.
Sentence 88: And here is just a little piece of advice from the President, and that is: if you have got just four tires on your car, try to make them last just as long as you possibly can, no matter whether you live next to an oil well or not.
Sentence 89: And there are two ways of doing that, and that is to cut your mileage—I don't mean essential mileage to get you to work- cut the rest of your mileage at least in half.
Sentence 90: And second, don't drive fast.
Sentence 91: That is just a bit of advice.
Sentence 92: Now I hope we won't have to implement that any other way.
Sentence 93: That is a hope.
Sentence 94: Q. Mr. President, can't we use that?
Sentence 95: You stated it for background —
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing)
Sentence 96: What?
Sentence 97: Q.
Sentence 98: You stated that originally for background.
Sentence 99: Couldn't we use that?
Sentence 100: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 101: Yes.
Sentence 102: It isn't of[ the record.
Sentence 103: You can put that into your own words.
Sentence 104: Q.
Sentence 105: Can we attribute it to you?
Sentence 106: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 107: Yes.
Sentence 108: I think it's all right. . . .
Sentence 109: Q. Mr. President, is there an implication that if this voluntary campaign produces enough rubber there will not be Nationwide gas rationing?
Sentence 110: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 111: Well, that is an "if" question.
Sentence 112: It depends on a lot of things- just one factor, but it is to try to get to the bottom of a very much disputed factor.
Sentence 113: Q. Mr. President, will the scrap rubber go to civilian use, or will the Army take it?
Sentence 114: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 115: The Government will take it.
Sentence 116: Q.
Sentence 117: Well, it won't help the civilians any if the Army takes it.
Sentence 118: THE PRESIDENT: I haven't the foggiest idea.
Sentence 119: I will take it right there—(pointing to his heart) this dreadful person sitting here—dictator, all those other things.
Sentence 120: I don't know where it is going. . .
Sentence 121: .
Sentence 122: Q. Mr. President, how soon do you think this "Pick-Up-the-Rubber" campaign might get under way?THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 123: I don't know.
Sentence 124: Pretty soon, I think.
Sentence 125: I think it is a pretty good idea to strike while the iron's hot, and the Lord knows it's hot now.
Sentence 126: Q. Mr. President, are we justified in assuming, based on your plea for saving rubber and tires, that there will be no compulsion in that respect until—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) I wouldn't assume.
Sentence 127: I haven't got quite to that point.
Sentence 128: I am still reading "Chapter One."
Q. (interposing) I was just thinking —
THE PRESIDENT: (continuing)
Sentence 129: I don't know how the detective story ends.
Sentence 130: Q. (continuing) I was just thinking of the reassuring effect that would have on the people down in Texas.
Sentence 131: (Laughter)
voices: Thank you, Mr. President.
Sentence 132: (More laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 133: You did get a story, didn't you?
Sentence 134: Q.
Sentence 135: The girls named your cottage "Shangri-La."
THE PRESIDENT: Lovely.
Sentence 136: Q.
Sentence 137: You wouldn't tell us where it was.
Sentence 138: THE PRESIDENT: I might have several.
Sentence 139: One might be called
"Shangri," and the other might be called "La."
(After this press conference, Mr. Early told the press that the gasoline shortage applied not only to the Atlantic coast but also to the Pacific Northwest and certain other geographical areas in the country.)
