Sentence 1: 1942 Excerpts From The Press Conference 48

THE PRESIDENT: I have sent out a letter to all heads of departments and agencies saying, "It is essential that an equitable and uniform practice be followed in applying provisions of the Selective Service and Training Act to officers and employees in the Federal service.
Sentence 2: The policy with respect to deferment from military training and service on occupational grounds, recommended in the attached memorandum of February 5, has my approval, and all concerned will be governed accordingly.
Sentence 3: "
I have approved and put into effect the following: Request for deferment from service of any officer or employee of the Government shall be made only by the head of the appropriate department.
Sentence 4: Such request must be made on forms prescribed by the Selective Service System.
Sentence 5: No such request shall be made except when the head of the department shall certify, first, that the officer or employee is in a position the duties of which are clearly related to the war effort or its essential supporting activities; second, that the officer or employee is in a type of position listed by the Selective Service as one in which it is difficult to obtain replacements, or a type of position in which he cannot be readily replaced except by the training of a successor through work experience for a period of at least six months.
Sentence 6: Number three, the initial request for deferment will be for a period of not to exceed six months.
Sentence 7: If the duties of the position are of a type requiring work experience of at least two years, the appropriate agency will take immediate steps to train a successor.
Sentence 8: Fourth, request for deferment beyond the initial six months' period will not be made except when the head of the department certifies that one of the following conditions exists: First, that to attain reasonable competence in the duties of the position, work experience of two years or more is necessary.
Sentence 9: Second, that replacement has been secured for the individual, but that a further period of training is required before the trainee is qualified to go in.
Sentence 10: And third, that the Selective Service System has found that a shortage of persons with qualifications required in the particular position exists, and that it has been impossible to get a replacement.
Sentence 11: Heads of all departments are to make an inventory of all officers and employees who in all probability will be placed in Class i A, and where necessary recruit and begin the training of persons who are to take their places.
Sentence 12: I think that covers that pretty well. . . .
Sentence 13: Q. Mr. President, the investigation of the Farm Security Administration is going on before a committee on non-essential expenditures.
Sentence 14: Would you care to say whether you consider their work non-essential?
Sentence 15: THE PRESIDENT: I would say it is extremely essential to keep that going.
Sentence 16: Our whole food situation for the duration of the war is intimately connected with it.
Sentence 17: Furthermore, the whole problem of security for a large number of individual families is at stake.
Sentence 18: Of course it is essential. .
Sentence 19: ..
Sentence 20: Q. Mr. President, a great deal has been said and written these days on the matter of "complacency" in this country, in the face of bad news in the Pacific.
Sentence 21: Would you care to comment on that?
Sentence 22: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 23: Yes, and a part of it is true.
Sentence 24: Not all of it, because I think we are beginning more and more, every day, to be more realistic in regard to the existing situation.
Sentence 25: And there is a better understanding in every part of the country that whether we like it or not this is a world-encircling war, and that the first objective, obviously—I am talking what might be called major strategy now—is to prevent a break-through, and cause as much attrition of the resources of the enemy as all of us can during the period in which we are able to build up the overwhelming superiority which is necessary and which will be forthcoming while we are engaged in preventing break-throughs and damaging or destroying as much of the personnel and materiel of the enemy as we possibly can. . . .
