Sentence 1: 1942 Excerpts From The Press Conference 43

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I will give you the most important thing first, which is a warning to the enemy Nations.
Sentence 3: I am making it in the form of a statement, because I think probably that is as good a way as any.
Sentence 4: Of course, we had hoped that the barbaric acts against civilian populations would decrease.
Sentence 5: On the contrary, they seem to be increasing.
Sentence 6: And I just give you the example of the shooting of hostages, not only in France but very recently five or six very important citizens in The Netherlands, and a good many people in Norway.
Sentence 7: Well, it's just an illustration.
Sentence 8: We don't get much news out of the other countries, but it is probable that similar—I call them atrocities on the part of Germany still exist in those other countries like Poland and Czechoslovakia that we don't get much news out of. . . .
Sentence 9: I think that's clear enough.
Sentence 10: I don't think it needs much comment.
Sentence 11: Then Steve [Early] has got for you a copy of a letter that went out yesterday morning to the head of every department and agency of the Federal Government in regard to talking too much.
Sentence 12: (Laughter)
I won't read it.
Sentence 13: It's fairly long.
Sentence 14: But the object is to prevent the people, from the top to the bottom, in these different agencies from talking too much, thereby creating false impressions, and in many cases taking opposite sides of a policy argument out in public which hasn't been passed on in any way, trying to make you good people decide that this is going to be the policy of the Government, and then citing somebody who has talked too much, and—Oh, well, you can understand why it's done just as well as I can.
Sentence 15: The third thing I have is that Mr. Wendell Willkie is going out to the Near East and Russia.
Sentence 16: Well, the Near East-
Sentence 17: I think you can make a fairly good guess—includes Egypt, and Arabia, and Palestine, and Syria, and Turkey, and Iraq, and Iran, and in addition to that, Moscow.
Sentence 18: And he is going as-
Sentence 19: I don't know exactly what his title would be.
Sentence 20: At any rate he is going for me.
Sentence 21: He is going—I suppose the best thing to call him is a Special Representative of the President.
Sentence 22: He will carry letters to the various Americans, and so forth, out there, and to some of the other people too.
Sentence 23: And he will be back by the fifteenth of October.
Sentence 24: (Laughter)
Sentence 25: Q. I wanted to ask you whether, in this very judicially minded statement of yours about the retribution, if you could commit those folks over there in these ravished countries to acting through courts of law, when they got a chance at them?
Sentence 26: You are speaking for the Government of the United States?
Sentence 27: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 28: Yes.
Sentence 29: Q.
Sentence 30: You are not committing those people to stand up there, are you?
Sentence 31: In other words, I don't see how those fellows could stand going in a law court if they got a hold of these guys.
Sentence 32: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 33: Well, of course, I can't talk for them, but I express the hope that there will be a judicial process.
Sentence 34: Q. Mr. President, have you heard the remark of some of the representatives of the occupied countries: "Give us one week"?
Sentence 35: THE PRESIDENT: I have.
Sentence 36: And I hope that they won't carry that idea out.
Sentence 37: I think sober judgment all over the world would be distinctly in favor of the judicial processes, when we win the war and can give it back.
Sentence 38: We don't want to kill innocent people. . . .
Sentence 39: We had a very good example of it here two or three weeks ago.
Sentence 40: That was not just a form.
Sentence 41: That was a definite judicial process that was carried up to the highest court.
Sentence 42: Q.
Sentence 43: Well, you mentioned Iraq and Iran and a lot of those Near East countries.
Sentence 44: Is there anything you could say about what you desire Willkie to do there?
Sentence 45: Information?
Sentence 46: Or is there anything more than that?
Sentence 47: THE PRESIDENT: I think you could say this: that, of course, in each country there are special tasks, depending on the country.
Sentence 48: I am not talking about Russia.
Sentence 49: I am talking about the other countries in the Near East.
Sentence 50: I should say that his principal task would be to tell the truth to them, representing the leadership of the minority party in this country.
Sentence 51: What he says will carry a very great weight on what the United States is doing to win the war.
Sentence 52: In other words, that we have unity, and that we are going all-out.
Sentence 53: And we talked for a while about one phase of it, which is perhaps an unintentional result, but a great many people all over the world get from our dispatches that originate in the United States the idea that our production is being hurt to a very, very large extent-
Sentence 54: remember I talked about this last week—there will be a threatened strike in one small plant, and it lasts 24 hours—there will be another shutdown by management in some small individual plant for 24 hours.
Sentence 55: That is so handled by the news agencies as to make the outside countries think that that is the rule instead of the very rare exception.
Sentence 56: I have had British labor people come in here, saying, "Oh, it's terrible.
Sentence 57: It's perfectly terrible.
Sentence 58: Why all these strikes, all these shutdowns?"
Sentence 59: And so forth and so on.
Sentence 60: "You are not carrying out the program."
Sentence 61: And when I tell them what this country knows pretty well, that the total of delay in war production caused by strikes or shutdowns is an infinitesimal percentage of the total, they are very much surprised.
Sentence 62: Now a lot of people in Britain think that, because of a- what shall I call it politely?—a disproportionate exposition of the news.
Sentence 63: And of course our enemies seize it—they grab it.
Sentence 64: Probably some of you know who have access to German newspaper dispatches, or dispatches from newspapers from, say, Paris.
Sentence 65: Why, heavens above!—if ten men walk out, that's front-page stuff for them.
Sentence 66: And the enemy, that is part of his propaganda, perfectly obviously.
Sentence 67: They just magnify something that doesn't exist.
Sentence 68: Well, the result is that you get false information to the people all over Europe and the Near East.
Sentence 69: Well, that is one of Mr. Willkie's tasks, to tell the truth about the United States.
Sentence 70: And another matter that I asked him to mention when he gets to these different places is the comparison between an Axis victory and a United Nations victory, as to what would happen to them.
Sentence 71: Now you might say that one side or the other is going to win, and therefore those Nations which are not actively at war at the present time ought to begin to think about what is going to happen to them in the case of either victory, in the one case being reduced to the status of a puppet state, totally controlled by Germany and Italy, and in the other case a reasonable opportunity for autonomy, and independence, and development, under certain principles.
Sentence 72: Well, just for example, the principles of the Atlantic Charter.
Sentence 73: And they ought to begin to realize over there the implications of a victory by the Axis powers, versus the implications by the United Nations.
Sentence 74: I don't think that we have expressed that enough to the individual Governments and peoples of those Nations.
Sentence 75: Now that is one of the jobs for Mr. Willkie to do.
Sentence 76: Q. Mr. President, have you asked Mr. Willkie to report to you when he comes back?
Sentence 77: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 78: Oh, yes.
Sentence 79: Q. Mr. President, you said that he would carry communications to some of the leaders of the Governments that he would visit.
Sentence 80: Could we presume that they would include one to Mr. Stalin?
Sentence 81: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 82: Oh, yes.
Sentence 83: Oh, yes.
Sentence 84: Q. (interposing) Mr. President—
THE PRESIDENT: (continuing)
Sentence 85: In fact, Mr. Stalin knows he is coming.
Sentence 86: Q.
Sentence 87: In your illustration there—the dissemination of news—you brought up the strike.
Sentence 88: Would you care also to include—and it isn't mine at all—the fact that the statement is made by competent authorities, labor leaders, that production is falling off and they blame the dollar-a-year men, and some member of Congress will make the statement on the floor.
Sentence 89: It arises as a legitimate matter of news sometimes, so far as reporting is concerned.
Sentence 90: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 91: Yes.
Sentence 92: It depends, of course, a good deal on what paper you work for.
Sentence 93: Of course, you can always write a story any way you want it.
Sentence 94: The principal problem at the present time is getting the raw materials to these plants, where you have—it isn't an easy thing—you have got literally thousands and thousands of plants.
Sentence 95: And with the best intentions in the world, the W.P.B. and the Army and Navy make priorities.
Sentence 96: Well, sometimes those priorities that are made at the beginning of the contract don't work out the way we expect them to.
Sentence 97: And we also know, in addition to that, that the very use of the word "priorities" means "not enough material to go around."
Sentence 98: And those are the principal causes of slowing up at the present time.
Sentence 99: Q. Well, as a general over-all matter, are you satisfied with the progress of the manufacture of munitions, and the distribution of—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) I never will be.
Sentence 100: Q. Are you dissatisfied?
Sentence 101: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 102: Yes.
Sentence 103: Q.
Sentence 104: Are you blue about it?
Sentence 105: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 106: No, no.
Sentence 107: No. . .
Sentence 108: .
Sentence 109: Q. Mr. President, can you tell me the effect yesterday afternoon in New York will have on the conduct of the war?
Sentence 110: (Referring to the nomination of John J. Bennett, It., over James M. Mead for Democratic nominee for Governor of New York State)
THE PRESIDENT: I thought somebody probably would ask that (laughter), and so this morning, while at breakfast, I was reading a piece by Mark Sullivan, which has a lot of wisdom in it.
Sentence 111: (Picking up the New York Herald Tribune for August 21)
Sentence 112: I shall read this.
Sentence 113: He is talking about a press conference that Bob Patterson had on the commando raid.
Sentence 114: (Reading): "The newsmen asked if Mr. Patterson had any comment.
Sentence 115: The question was asked in a manner which suggested that the questioner really didn't have much hope of an answer."
Sentence 116: (Laughter)
Which I think is very nice.
Sentence 117: Then Mark goes on.
Sentence 118: He says this:
"By thus setting his expectations below his hopes, he escaped disappointment."
Sentence 119: (More laughter)
Sentence 120: This is one of the grandest things I ever read.
Sentence 121: (Continuing reading): "Mr. Patterson said merely that he had no worth-while comment.
Sentence 122: If Mr. Patterson has no copyright on those four short words, 'no worth-while comment,' they could be advantageously used by some other Washington officials who face press conferences.
Sentence 123: If all officials were as immune as the impassive Mr. Patterson from feeling that courtesy or other motive requires them to satisfy the newsmen with something interesting or amusing—in that event the quantity of words that go out of Washington would become at once diminished (laughter)—and more informative."
Sentence 124: (More laughter)
I wanted to read that because I want that to go into the record of the press conferences that will come out some day.
Sentence 125: Q.
Sentence 126: Mr. Sullivan is with us today, if you care—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing)
Sentence 127: Yes?
Sentence 128: Is Mark there?
MR.
Sentence 129: SULLIVAN:
Sentence 130: Always here, Mr. President.
Sentence 131: (Loud laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 132: Now it's going down in the Presidential papers to be issued later on.
