Sentence 1: 1942 Excerpts From The Press Conference 50

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I have, for quite a long while, been interested in one particular housing program that is very much needed outside the city of Detroit.
Sentence 3: Out there they have got this new Willow Run bomber plant in Ypsilanti.
Sentence 4: When it is going full speed, it will probably use 75 to 100 thousand people in it.
Sentence 5: And there is not enough housing in that area.
Sentence 6: This is perhaps illustrative of some of the things that are, on a smaller scale, the same kind of problem.
Sentence 7: And they have been talking two months about meeting some of them.
Sentence 8: The trouble is that this area includes probably half a dozen communities and three separate counties, and the State of Michigan, and various agencies of the Federal Government.
Sentence 9: And when you get a situation like that, there is only one thing to do and that is to tie it together under somebody.
Sentence 10: I have asked Frederic Delano to assume the job of bringing all these different agencies together—local and county, State and Federal, and get something started.
Sentence 11: So I have sent him a letter to that effect.
Sentence 12: We hope to get fairly quick action.
Sentence 13: Q. Mr. President, did you see Secretary Wickard's statement that the F.S.A. has not been paying poll taxes?
Sentence 14: THE PRESIDENT: I did. . . .
Sentence 15: These tenant people, these people who come under Federal grants have a budget which includes everything, every necessity of life.
Sentence 16: It includes food, includes clothing, includes a bed to sleep in, and it includes taxes of all kinds.
Sentence 17: And in those budgets they allow people to put down one form of tax, which is a poll tax. . .
Sentence 18: .
Sentence 19: This controversy reminds me of the time seven or eight years ago when there was a drive in this country to prevent anybody on W.P.A. from voting.
Sentence 20: Now that is an awfully good parallel.
Sentence 21: Why, there were cheers and yells from a certain type of mind in the country when it was proposed that persons, because they were poor, would have to be cut out from the right to vote.
Sentence 22: Q. Mr. President, do you approve of the poll tax in principle?
Sentence 23: Do you think it's a sound tax, anyway?
Sentence 24: THE PRESIDENT: I suppose the best thing to do is quote the war editor of the Montgomery, Alabama, Journal and let him talk to you.
Sentence 25: (Reading): "No one questions the wisdom of the Alabama law which prohibits anyone from paying another's poll tax.
Sentence 26: It might be a good—"
And mind you that is a State tax.
Sentence 27: "—it might be a good thing if it were enforced generally in the South, but the law does not forbid a farmer or anyone else to go to his bank and borrow money to pay his taxes—poll taxes or no poll taxes.
Sentence 28: Why then all the fuss about the F.S.A. which is the only bank available to many farmers?
Sentence 29: "
Q. Do you think the poll tax in itself, Mr. President, has kept the poor people in the past from voting in the past?
Sentence 30: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 31: Yes, of course it has.
Sentence 32: Q.
Sentence 33: Do you think that is a good idea?
Sentence 34: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 35: No. I have been opposed to a poll tax all my life. . . .
Sentence 36: Q. Mr. President, is there any estimate on the number of persons who might thus be diverted from civilian departments to war effort under the directive putting Government agencies on a 44-hour week?
Sentence 37: THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) No.
Sentence 38: Of course, it will depend on what develops.
Sentence 39: Of course one development is that you can't generalize.
Sentence 40: And it always rises on these surveys, which of course go on all the time and which aim to cut down certain things not connected with defense, but you have to get Congressional action for it.
Sentence 41: Well, let us for example take the case of the bright boys who say you can curtail all of the Federal expenditures.
Sentence 42: Well, all right.
Sentence 43: When some bright boy writes that and sobs over it that it hasn't been done, you ask him a question and say, "Where?"
Sentence 44: He says, "Oh, well—.
Sentence 45: That's a detail.
Sentence 46: That has nothing to do with me.
Sentence 47: I am a leader of public opinion on this thing.
Sentence 48: I am not supposed to know any details.
Sentence 49: "
I had one of those chaps in the other day.
Sentence 50: You have read a lot of his stuff, and I said, "Where?"
Sentence 51: And he couldn't tell me where, that was not his business, where to curtail.
Sentence 52: So I said, "All right, let's take an example- meat inspection meat inspection.
Sentence 53: It costs the Federal Government an awful lot every year for the inspection of meat, and to see that it is decent meat for people to eat."
Sentence 54: I said, "Do you want to curtail that?
Sentence 55: It is perfectly possible in wartime to curtail that.
Sentence 56: Absolutely simple.
Sentence 57: All you have to do is to get the Congress to eliminate or greatly curtail meat inspection.
Sentence 58: It's a cinch.
Sentence 59: Why not?
Sentence 60: It's wartime.
Sentence 61: Who cares whether we eat diseased meat in wartime?
Sentence 62: Save money!
Sentence 63: It will save a few million dollars.
Sentence 64: "
Well now, it's a question.
Sentence 65: If the Nation wants to stop meat inspection it has an absolute right to do it through its elected officials.
Sentence 66: And I won't curtail, because the Congress has told the Executive that meat is to be inspected.
Sentence 67: And, therefore, having put that job on the Executive, the Executive sends to the Congress an estimate, and then the Congress goes over that estimate and tries to find out whether there are too many people for the inspection of meat.
Sentence 68: And sometimes they cut it down a bit, and I have known them to raise it.
Sentence 69: And we get inspected meat.
Sentence 70: Now they can cut that out any old time they want.
Sentence 71: I can't do it, because they have given me a directive to inspect meat.
Sentence 72: Well, that's a pretty good example.
Sentence 73: You take dozens and dozens of bureaus here in Washington.
Sentence 74: Your glib boys say, "Oh, cut them all out.
Sentence 75: Cut them all down."
Sentence 76: Congress has an absolute right to cut them out, or cut them down.
Sentence 77: I have a directive. . . .
Sentence 78: Q. Mr. President, I am not one of the glib boys.
Sentence 79: What about the three C's and the N.Y.A.?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 80: Well, the N.Y.A., just to take an example, is turning out, I think, between eighty and ninety thousand boys who are being trained for defense work, every three months.
Sentence 81: Q. Are they being trained for mechanical work?
Sentence 82: THE PRESIDENT: For mechanical work, yes.
Sentence 83: Well, I think that answers your question.
Sentence 84: There are some boys still in the C.C.C., though a very greatly reduced number.
Sentence 85: They are very nearly all people who have not reached draft age yet, and some of them are not physically acceptable to the draft.
Sentence 86: Others, by going through the C.C.C., will be physically satisfactory for the Army or the Navy, when they reach twenty years old.
Sentence 87: Q. What about rehabilitating the C.C.C. boys then—boys that are physically unfit?
Sentence 88: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 89: Yes, yes.
Sentence 90: They have done a lot of that.
Sentence 91: A very large number of the C.C.C. boys have been rehabilitated, and been made useful for defense work, where they couldn't go to the front. . . .
