Sentence 1: 1942 State The Union Address 1

IN FULFILLING my duty to report upon the State of the Union, I am proud to say to you that the spirit of the American people was never higher than it is today—the Union was never more closely knit together—this country was never more deeply determined to face the solemn tasks before it.
Sentence 2: The response of the American people has been instantaneous, and it will be sustained until our security is assured.
Sentence 3: Exactly one year ago today I said to this Congress: "When the dictators. . .
Sentence 4: are ready to make war upon us, they will not wait for an act of war on our part. . . .
Sentence 5: They—not we—will choose the time and the place and the method of their attack.
Sentence 6: "
We now know their choice of the time: a peaceful Sunday morning— December 7, 1941.
Sentence 7: We know their choice of the place: an American outpost in the Pacific.
Sentence 8: We know their choice of the method: the method of Hitler himself.
Sentence 9: Japan's scheme of conquest goes back half a century.
Sentence 10: It was not merely a policy of seeking living room: it was a plan which included the subjugation of all the peoples in the Far East and in the islands of the Pacific, and the domination of that ocean by Japanese military and naval control of the western coasts of North, Central, and South America.
Sentence 11: The development of this ambitious conspiracy was marked by the war against China in 1894; the subsequent occupation of Korea; the war against Russia in 1904; the illegal fortification of the mandated Pacific islands following 1920; the seizure of Manchuria in 1931; and the invasion of China in 1937.
Sentence 12: A similar policy of criminal conquest was adopted by Italy.
Sentence 13: The Fascists first revealed their imperial designs in Libya and Tripoli.
Sentence 14: In 1935 they seized Abyssinia.
Sentence 15: Their goal was the domination of all North Africa, Egypt, parts of France, and the entire Mediterranean world.
Sentence 16: But the dreams of empire of the Japanese and Fascist leaders were modest in comparison with the gargantuan aspirations of Hitler and his Nazis.
Sentence 17: Even before they came to power in 1933, their plans for that conquest had been drawn.
Sentence 18: Those plans provided for ultimate domination, not of any one section of the world, but of the whole earth and all the oceans on it.
Sentence 19: When Hitler organized his Berlin-Rome-Tokyo alliance, all these plans of conquest became a single plan.
Sentence 20: Under this, in addition to her own schemes of conquest, Japan's role was obviously to cut off our supply of weapons of war to Britain, and Russia and China- weapons which increasingly were speeding the day of Hitler's doom.
Sentence 21: The act of Japan at Pearl Harbor was intended to stun us—to terrify us to such an extent that we would divert our industrial and military strength to the Pacific area, or even to our own continental defense.
Sentence 22: The plan has failed in its purpose.
Sentence 23: We have not been stunned.
Sentence 24: We have not been terrified or confused.
Sentence 25: This very reassembling of the Seventy-seventh Congress today is proof of that; for the mood of quiet, grim resolution which here prevails bodes ill for those who conspired and collaborated to murder world peace.
Sentence 26: That mood is stronger than any mere desire for revenge.
Sentence 27: It expresses the will of the American people to make very certain that the world will never so suffer again.
Sentence 28: Admittedly, we have been faced with hard choices.
Sentence 29: It was bitter, for example, not to be able to relieve the heroic and historic defenders of Wake Island.
Sentence 30: It was bitter for us not to be able to land a million men in a thousand ships in the Philippine Islands.
Sentence 31: But this adds only to our determination to see to it that the Stars and Stripes will fly again over Wake and Guam.
Sentence 32: Yes, see to it that the brave people of the Philippines will be rid of Japanese imperialism; and will live in freedom, security, and independence.
Sentence 33: Powerful and offensive actions must and will be taken in proper time.
Sentence 34: The consolidation of the United Nations' total war effort against our common enemies is being achieved.
Sentence 35: That was and is the purpose of conferences which have been held during the past two weeks in Washington, and Moscow and Chungking.
Sentence 36: That is the primary objective of the declaration of solidarity signed in Washington on January 1, 1942, by 26 Nations united against the Axis powers.
Sentence 37: Difficult choices may have to be made in the months to come.
Sentence 38: We do not shrink from such decisions.
Sentence 39: We and those united with us will make those decisions with courage and determination.
Sentence 40: Plans have been laid here and in the other capitals for coordinated and cooperative action by all the United Nations—military action and economic action.
Sentence 41: Already we have established, as you know, unified command of land, sea, and air forces in the southwestern Pacific theater of war.
Sentence 42: There will be a continuation of conferences and consultations among military staffs, so that the plans and operations of each will fit into the general strategy designed to crush the enemy.
Sentence 43: We shall not fight isolated wars—each Nation going its own way.
Sentence 44: These 26 Nations are united-not in spirit and determination alone, but in the broad conduct of the war in all its phases.
Sentence 45: For the first time since the Japanese and the Fascists and the Nazis started along their blood-stained course of conquest they now face the fact that superior forces are assembling against them.
Sentence 46: Gone forever are the days when the aggressors could attack and destroy their victims one by one without unity of resistance.
Sentence 47: We of the United Nations will so dispose our forces that we can strike at the common enemy wherever the greatest damage can be done him.
Sentence 48: The militarists of Berlin and Tokyo started this war.
Sentence 49: But the massed, angered forces of common humanity will finish it.
Sentence 50: Destruction of the material and spiritual centers of civilization-this has been and still is the purpose of Hitler and his Italian and Japanese chessmen.
Sentence 51: They would wreck the power of the British Commonwealth and Russia and China and the Netherlands—and then combine all their forces to achieve their ultimate goal, the conquest of the United States.
Sentence 52: They know that victory for us means victory for freedom.
Sentence 53: They know that victory for us means victory for the institution of democracy— the ideal of the family, the simple principles of common decency and humanity.
Sentence 54: They know that victory for us means victory for religion.
Sentence 55: And they could not tolerate that.
Sentence 56: The world is too small to provide adequate "living room" for both Hitler and God.
Sentence 57: In proof of that, the Nazis have now announced their plan for enforcing their new German, pagan religion all over the world—a plan by which the Holy Bible and the Cross of Mercy would be displaced by Mein Kampf and the swastika and the naked sword.
Sentence 58: Our own objectives are clear; the objective of smashing the militarism imposed by war lords upon their enslaved peoples the objective of liberating the subjugated Nations—the objective of establishing and securing freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom from want, and freedom from fear everywhere in the world.
Sentence 59: We shall not stop short of these objectives—nor shall we be satisfied merely to gain them and then call it a day.
Sentence 60: I know that I speak for the American people-
Sentence 61: and I have good reason to believe that I speak also for all the other peoples who fight with us—when I say that this time we are determined not only to win the war, but also to maintain the security of the peace that will follow.
Sentence 62: But we know that modern methods of warfare make it a task, not only of shooting and fighting, but an even more urgent one of working and producing.
Sentence 63: Victory requires the actual weapons of war and the means of transporting them to a dozen points of combat.
Sentence 64: It will not be sufficient for us and the other United Nations to produce a slightly superior supply of munitions to that of Germany, Japan, Italy, and the stolen industries in the countries which they have overrun.
Sentence 65: The superiority of the United Nations in munitions and ships must be overwhelming—so overwhelming that the Axis Nations can never hope to catch up with it.
Sentence 66: And so, in order to attain this overwhelming superiority the United States must build planes and tanks and guns and ships to the utmost limit of our national capacity.
Sentence 67: We have the ability and capacity to produce arms not only for our own forces, but also for the armies, navies, and air forces fighting on our side.
Sentence 68: And our overwhelming superiority of armament must be adequate to put weapons of war at the proper time into the hands of those men in the conquered Nations who stand ready to seize the first opportunity to revolt against their German and Japanese oppressors, and against the traitors in their own ranks, known by the already infamous name of "Quislings."
Sentence 69: And I think that it is a fair prophecy to say that, as we get guns to the patriots in those lands, they too will fire shots heard 'round the world.
Sentence 70: This production of ours in the United States must be raised far above present levels, even though it will mean the dislocation of the lives and occupations of millions of our own people.
Sentence 71: We must raise our sights all along the production line.
Sentence 72: Let no man say it cannot be done.
Sentence 73: It must be done—and we have undertaken to do it.
Sentence 74: I have just sent a letter of directive to the appropriate departments and agencies of our Government, ordering that immediate steps be taken:
Sentence 75: First, to increase our production rate of airplanes so rapidly that in this year, 1942, we shall produce 60,000 planes, 10,000 more than the goal that we set a year and a half ago.
Sentence 76: This includes 45,000 combat planes- bombers, dive bombers, pursuit planes.
Sentence 77: The rate of increase will be maintained and continued so that next year, 1943, we shall produce 125,000 airplanes, including 100,000 combat planes.
Sentence 78: Second, to increase our production rate of tanks so rapidly that in this year, 1942, we shall produce 45,000 tanks; and to continue that increase so that next year, 1943, we shall produce 75,000 tanks.
Sentence 79: Third, to increase our production rate of anti-aircraft guns so rapidly that in this year, 1942, we shall produce 20,000 of them; and to continue that increase so that next year, 1943, we shall produce 35,000 anti-aircraft guns.
Sentence 80: And fourth, to increase our production rate of merchant ships so rapidly that in this year, 1942, we shall build 6,000,000 deadweight tons as compared with a 1941 completed production of 1,100,000.
Sentence 81: And finally, we shall continue that increase so that next year, 1943, we shall build 10,000,000 tons of shipping.
Sentence 82: These figures and similar figures for a multitude of other implements of war will give the Japanese and the Nazis a little idea of just what they accomplished in the attack at Pearl Harbor.
Sentence 83: And I rather hope that all these figures which I have given will become common knowledge in Germany and Japan.
Sentence 84: Our task is hard- our task is unprecedented—and the time is short.
Sentence 85: We must strain every existing armament-producing facility to the utmost.
Sentence 86: We must convert every available plant and tool to war production.
Sentence 87: That goes all the way from the greatest plants to the smallest—from the huge automobile industry to the village machine shop.
Sentence 88: Production for war is based on men and women—the human hands and brains which collectively we call Labor.
Sentence 89: Our workers stand ready to work long hours; to turn out more in a day's work; to keep the wheels turning and the fires burning twenty-four hours a day, and seven days a week.
Sentence 90: They realize well that on the speed and efficiency of their work depend the lives of their sons and their brothers on the fighting fronts.
Sentence 91: Production for war is based on metals and raw materials-steel, copper, rubber, aluminum, zinc, tin.
Sentence 92: Greater and greater quantities of them will have to be diverted to war purposes.
Sentence 93: Civilian use of them will have to be cut further and still further —and, in many cases, completely eliminated.
Sentence 94: War costs money.
Sentence 95: So far, we have hardly even begun to pay for it.
Sentence 96: We have devoted only 15 percent of our national income to national defense.
Sentence 97: As will appear in my Budget Message tomorrow,
[See APP Note.]
our war program for the coming fiscal year will cost 56 billion dollars or, in other words, more than half of the estimated annual national income.
Sentence 98: That means taxes and bonds and bonds and taxes.
Sentence 99: It means cutting luxuries and other non-essentials.
Sentence 100: In a word, it means an "all-out" war by individual effort and family effort in a united country.
Sentence 101: Only this all-out scale of production will hasten the ultimate all-out victory.
Sentence 102: Speed will count.
Sentence 103: Lost ground can always be regained- lost time never.
Sentence 104: Speed will save lives; speed will save this Nation which is in peril; speed will save our freedom and our civilization—and slowness has never been an American characteristic.
Sentence 105: As the United States goes into its full stride, we must always be on guard against misconceptions which will arise, some of them naturally, or which will be planted among us by our enemies.
Sentence 106: We must guard against complacency.
Sentence 107: We must not underrate the enemy.
Sentence 108: He is powerful and cunning—and cruel and ruthless.
Sentence 109: He will stop at nothing that gives him a chance to kill and to destroy.
Sentence 110: He has trained his people to believe that their highest perfection is achieved by waging war.
Sentence 111: For many years he has prepared for this very conflict- planning, and plotting, and training, arming, and fighting.
Sentence 112: We have already tasted defeat.
Sentence 113: We may suffer further setbacks.
Sentence 114: We must face the fact of a hard war, a long war, a bloody war, a costly war.
Sentence 115: We must, on the other hand, guard against defeatism.
Sentence 116: That has been one of the chief weapons of Hitler's propaganda machine—used time and again with deadly results.
Sentence 117: It will not be used successfully on the American people.
Sentence 118: We must guard against divisions among ourselves and among all the other United Nations.
Sentence 119: We must be particularly vigilant against racial discrimination in any of its ugly forms.
Sentence 120: Hitler will try again to breed mistrust and suspicion between one individual and another, one group and another, one race and another, one Government and another.
Sentence 121: He will try to use the same technique of falsehood and rumor-mongering with which he divided France from Britain.
Sentence 122: He is trying to do this with us even now.
Sentence 123: But he will find a unity of will and purpose against him, which will persevere until the destruction of all his black designs upon the freedom and safety of the people of the world.
Sentence 124: We cannot wage this war in a defensive spirit.
Sentence 125: As our power and our resources are fully mobilized, we shall carry the attack against the enemy—we shall hit him and hit him again wherever and whenever we can reach him.
Sentence 126: We must keep him far from our shores, for we intend to bring this battle to him on his own home grounds.
Sentence 127: American armed forces must be used at any place in all the world where it seems advisable to engage the forces of the enemy.
Sentence 128: In some cases these operations will be defensive, in order to protect key positions.
Sentence 129: In other cases, these operations will be offensive, in order to strike at the common enemy, with a view to his complete encirclement and eventual total defeat.
Sentence 130: American armed forces will operate at many points in the Far East.
Sentence 131: American armed forces will be on all the oceans- helping to guard the essential communications which are vital to the United Nations.
Sentence 132: American land and air and sea forces will take stations in the British Isles- which constitute an essential fortress in this great world struggle.
Sentence 133: American armed forces will help to protect this hemisphere—and also help to protect bases outside this hemisphere, which could be used for an attack on the Americas.
Sentence 134: If any of our enemies, from Europe or from Asia, attempt long-range raids by "suicide" squadrons of bombing planes, they will do so only in the hope of terrorizing our people and disrupting our morale.
Sentence 135: Our people are not afraid of that.
Sentence 136: We know that we may have to pay a heavy price for freedom.
Sentence 137: We will pay this price with a will.
Sentence 138: Whatever the price, it is a thousand times worth it.
Sentence 139: No matter what our enemies, in their desperation, may attempt to do to us- we will say, as the people of London have said, "We can take it."
Sentence 140: And what's more we can give it back
Sentence 141: and we will give it back—with compound interest.
Sentence 142: When our enemies challenged our country to stand up and fight, they challenged each and every one of us.
Sentence 143: And each and every one of us has accepted the challenge—for himself and for his Nation.
Sentence 144: There were only some 400 United States Marines who in the heroic and historic defense of Wake Island inflicted such great losses on the enemy.
Sentence 145: Some of those men were killed in action; and others are now prisoners of war.
Sentence 146: When the survivors of that great fight are liberated and restored to their homes, they will learn that a hundred and thirty million of their fellow citizens have been inspired to render their own full share of service and sacrifice.
Sentence 147: We can well say that our men on the fighting fronts have already proved that Americans today are just as rugged and just as tough as any of the heroes whose exploits we celebrate on the Fourth of July.
Sentence 148: Many people ask, "When will this war end?"
Sentence 149: There is only one answer to that.
Sentence 150: It will end just as soon as we make it end, by our combined efforts, our combined strength, our combined determination to fight through and work through until the end —the end of militarism in Germany and Italy and Japan.
Sentence 151: Most certainly we shall not settle for less.
Sentence 152: That is the spirit in which discussions have been conducted during the visit of the British Prime Minister to Washington.
Sentence 153: Mr. Churchill and I understand each other, our motives and our purposes.
Sentence 154: Together, during the past two weeks, we have faced squarely the major military and economic problems of this greatest world war.
Sentence 155: All in our Nation have been cheered by Mr. Churchill's visit.
Sentence 156: We have been deeply stirred by his great message to us.
Sentence 157: He is welcome in our midst, and we unite in wishing him a safe return to his home.
Sentence 158: For we are fighting on the same side with the British people, who fought alone for long, terrible months, and withstood the enemy with fortitude and tenacity and skill.
Sentence 159: We are fighting on the same side with the Russian people who have seen the Nazi hordes swarm up to the very gates of Moscow, and who with almost superhuman will and courage have forced the invaders back into retreat.
Sentence 160: We are fighting on the same side as the brave people of China—those millions who for four and a half long years have withstood bombs and starvation and have whipped the invaders time and again in spite of the superior Japanese equipment and arms.
Sentence 161: Yes, we are fighting on the same side as the indomitable Dutch.
Sentence 162: We are fighting on the same side as all the other Governments in exile, whom Hitler and all his armies and all his Gestapo have not been able to conquer.
Sentence 163: But we of the United Nations are not making all this sacrifice of human effort and human lives to return to the kind of world we had after the last world war.
Sentence 164: We are fighting today for security, for progress, and for peace, not only for ourselves
Sentence 165: but for all men, not only for one generation but for all generations.
Sentence 166: We are fighting to cleanse the world of ancient evils, ancient ills.
Sentence 167: Our enemies are guided by brutal cynicism, by unholy contempt for the human race.
Sentence 168: We are inspired by a faith that goes back through all the years to the first chapter of the Book of Genesis: "God created man in His own image.
Sentence 169: "
We on our side are striving to be true to that divine heritage.
Sentence 170: We are fighting, as our fathers have fought, to uphold the doctrine that all men are equal in the sight of God.
Sentence 171: Those on the other side are striving to destroy this deep belief and to create a world in their own image—a world of tyranny and cruelty and serfdom.
Sentence 172: That is the conflict that day and night now pervades our lives.
Sentence 173: No compromise can end that conflict.
Sentence 174: There never has been—there never can be—successful compromise between good and evil.
Sentence 175: Only total victory can reward the champions of tolerance, and decency, and freedom, and faith.
