Sentence 1: 1942 Excerpts From The Press Conference 35

Q. Mr. President, there have been some conflicting reports recently on wherein lies the final authority on our production program.
Sentence 2: I wonder if you could tell us whether Mr. Nelson, or the Army and Navy have the final say on production schedules, and the allocation of materials?
THE PRESIDENT: I guess the answer is that they work it out together.
Sentence 3: I will give you an example.
Sentence 4: I won't give you the figures but take the production of airplanes.
Sentence 5: Airplanes, as I suggested to you before, changed very greatly in character since last January.
Sentence 6: Each one now weighs a great deal more than its type did a year ago.
Sentence 7: Each one has more wingspread than its type had a year ago.
Sentence 8: Each one has more horsepower than its type did a year ago.
Sentence 9: Each one takes a great many more man-hours to make than it did a year ago.
Sentence 10: All right.
Sentence 11: You can say that on the basis of workmanship, we are going to spend more workmanship on planes in the calendar year '43, a great deal more than we are doing today, or than we have done in the average of this year.
Sentence 12: In other words, we will have a constantly increasing program in terms of workmanship.
Sentence 13: Well now, you come down to certain totals.
Sentence 14: These totals are what we have raised our sights on, not on the total number of units, but on the total workmanship that goes into planes.
Sentence 15: And there you get a problem.
Sentence 16: This man, who is a production expert, says you can do so and so.
Sentence 17: Another man, who is a production expert, says you can't do as much as that; you can only do less.
Sentence 18: And then the problem comes to the Chiefs of Staff.
Sentence 19: What are you going to do with them when you get them?
Sentence 20: Have you got the men to man them?
Sentence 21: Do we have to man all that we make, or can we turn them over to somebody else that has more men than they need, for their own production?
Sentence 22: Now all those things have to be worked out between the staff people and the actual production people.
Sentence 23: The question of shipping comes into it.
Sentence 24: We can fly today a great many more planes, and more types of planes under their own power, to the different theaters of war, than we could a year before.
Sentence 25: Well, that means that every month that goes by almost, the transportation of planes in ships is changed.
Sentence 26: I won't say it is simplified, because there are so many more that are coming out.
Sentence 27: And then comes the question, when we get them to the theater of war in increasing quantities, can we at the same times get in the ships the spare engines, the spare parts, the gasoline to make them fly, the ground crews, and everything else for the theater of operations?
Sentence 28: It's a constant day-by-day problem of reconciling all of these factors and all of these opinions.
Sentence 29: And the reconciliation of the new factors and the latest opinions is going on every single day; and it is getting on extremely well.
Sentence 30: Of course now, this is not derogatory- suppose one of you fellows goes to one man who is concerned with, let us say, the training of a special ground crew, and he says that, by gosh, he doesn't think that they can get out enough ground crews.
Sentence 31: Then you go to somebody else who is a specialist on it, who disagrees personally with the other fellow.
Sentence 32: What do you do?
Sentence 33: You get those two stories.
Sentence 34: Now it's machinery that is working every day for the reconciliation of all these different points of view.
Sentence 35: And therefore, from the point of view of truth then, about the only thing you can do is to see whether the stuff is actually coming out as well as it reasonably can be hoped.
Sentence 36: That means the material into the services of repair, spare parts, the flying personnel, and everything else.
Sentence 37: Well, on the whole, it is going along pretty well.
Sentence 38: Q. Mr. President, almost every day we read that you plan to put one man over all these activities.
Sentence 39: Would you be able to reconcile the differences of these individuals better that way, or not?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 40: No.
Sentence 41: You know what it is.
Sentence 42: I can take two blueprints of exactly the same kind of organization, and those two blueprints won't look like each other at all.
Sentence 43: Q. Well, sir, specifically, is there anything in the works on giving one man over-all power?
Sentence 44: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 45: No.
Sentence 46: It's just like sitting down and drawing—what do they call it when a fellow sits and draws a figure.
Sentence 47: Q. (interjecting) Doodling?
Sentence 48: THE PRESIDENT: Doodles, that's it.
Sentence 49: Now they are just engaging in doodles.
Sentence 50: Ninety percent of the time they will draw new pictures; and "doodle" is a very good word for it.
Sentence 51: Q. Mr. President, in relation to this reported conflict over production and scheduling, has your attention been called to this question of an aircraft committee headed by Charles E. Wilson, which Mr. Nelson announced he had appointed, and which the Army and Navy have declined to countersign?
Sentence 52: THE PRESIDENT: Not in that form.
Sentence 53: Mr. Wilson is going to have general charge of production.
Sentence 54: Well, just for example, on the production of planes there are half a dozen out of a hundred places where in individual plants, or individual parts of an airplane, the thing is not clicking—half a dozen out of a hundred.
Sentence 55: Now they have got to be eliminated.
Sentence 56: Put it in another practical way: A plane is finished by-oh, what?—the Douglas people.
Sentence 57: The minute it's ready at the Douglas plant, the navigational instruments ought to be ready for it.
Sentence 58: Well, there are all kinds of navigational instruments.
Sentence 59: It may be one type of plane where somebody hasn't kept up to his time schedule, and there it will sit, maybe for a month before the special gadget that is to go into that special type of airplane is ready for it.
Sentence 60: Now that's another job which Mr. Wilson is to coordinate and work out kinks of that kind, on timing.
Sentence 61: Q. Mr. President, the that timing situation, I believe, develops as a matter of scheduling, to a large extent.
Sentence 62: Of course the schedule was changed all the time.
Sentence 63: And I think the issue now is who shall have the final authority as to say whether a thing will be settled this way or that way, the Army or Mr. Wilson, who is supposed to be acting for Mr. Nelson in production?
Sentence 64: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 65: Well, that is one of those theoretical things, and none of you is an expert on scheduling, any more than I am.
Sentence 66: I suppose it's a little bit like doodling.
Sentence 67: It depends who has the pencil and the piece of paper.
Sentence 68: Q.
Sentence 69: That's the question.
Sentence 70: Does Mr. Wilson have the pencil?
Sentence 71: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 72: No. I would say they all do mutually, and they are supposed to agree.
Sentence 73: And if they don't agree, then I'll put them in a room and I'll say, "No food until you come out in agreement."
Sentence 74: (Laughter)
It's a practical thing.
Sentence 75: It isn't a thing to write a story about.
Sentence 76: None of us knows.
Sentence 77: Not one of us here in this room knows how to do a thing like that the best way, because there are half a dozen ways.
Sentence 78: You people who were with me on the 'trip know that we went through four different aviation plants; and all four of those plants had different methods of putting an airplane together.
Sentence 79: Well, there had been an awful lot of "touting" of one particular method.
Sentence 80: From the layman's point of view it sounds awfully attractive: Start something on a belt, and as the belt moves on, the plane takes form like a little old Ford car.
Sentence 81: Well, it sounds awfully attractive to all of us, but you take these engineers; they are specialists.
Sentence 82: They think, some of them, that Mr. A's way isn't as good as Mr. B's way, which is not the continuous belt but is some other kind of belt that goes by fits and starts.
Sentence 83: And another fellow says no; you ought to do only half the operations by belt.
Sentence 84: And still another fellow says the belt method is silly; start your automobile on a place on the floor, and finish it right there.
Sentence 85: Now who is there among you, or myself, that knows which is the best?
Sentence 86: The point is in actual production they are all working-these different methods.
Sentence 87: Some are working better than others.
Sentence 88: It doesn't mean that it is the fault of their method.
Sentence 89: It may be the fault of some other factor that enters into production.
Sentence 90: We are all children.
Sentence 91: You are all children.
Sentence 92: I am a child when it comes to engineering.
Sentence 93: But on the whole it is going along pretty well.
Sentence 94: There are one or two plants that still have got bad kinks in them ....
Sentence 95: Q. Mr. President, is there anything you can tell us about your discussion with President Carlos Alberto Arroyo Del Rio of Ecuador last night?
Sentence 96: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 97: Well, we had an awfully interesting discussion, as I have had with a number of other heads of American Governments.
Sentence 98: We talked about two things.
Sentence 99: The first, of course, was the immediate and present problem of the war, and the general solidarity of the 21 Nations, which is a very high percentage of solidarity.
Sentence 100: And second, about the future, about trying to get an economy for the North and South Americas and Central America which will raise their standards-
Sentence 101: the standards and the wealth of the poorer Nations, and the smaller Nations, without hurting our economy or the economy of the larger or richer Nations as they exist at the present time.
Sentence 102: I may have something to say, later on, in regard to that subject, on the part of certain elements of thinking in this country: that we are trying to debase our economy merely to build up other people's.
Sentence 103: I can give you an illustration right here at home.
Sentence 104: Back in the old days, when I went South —the deep South- twenty years ago- the whole standard of earnings was so low that those people down there couldn't buy anything at the store.
Sentence 105: And a great many northern and southern people failed to realize that if their purchasing power down there in the South was higher, increased relatively faster, let us say, than the northern manufacturing districts, those people down there would acquire purchasing power for the purchase of things that were made in the North, and therefore would put a whole lot of people to work in the North, and thereby increase the purchasing power of the North too.
Sentence 106: Well, it sounds awfully simple the way I say it, but nobody ever acted on it until we began to act—this is not political, it's merely historical—it did happen after 1933; the purchasing power of the South began to go up by leaps and bounds.
Sentence 107: In rural Georgia, for example, back there, there was hardly a local store that was solvent, quite aside from the banks.
Sentence 108: They didn't turn their stock over.
Sentence 109: There were no buyers on Saturday afternoons in the country districts in the South, and there the stock remained.
Sentence 110: Well, I don't know, maybe one or two are still here that accompanied me down to Georgia in those days.
Sentence 111: But if you remember the local stores down there, if you went in to buy a hat, you would find it was an eight-year-old vintage; there was no turnover.
Sentence 112: That meant that the fellow was losing so much interest on the money he had borrowed to buy his stock with, and each year he was going deeper into the red.
Sentence 113: Now since then, in the whole of the agricultural South, they have had a greater turnover, because they have had more buying power.
Sentence 114: Now it certainly hasn't hurt the North.
Sentence 115: It has given the North, and the manufacturing districts, the opportunity to make things and sell in the South that they had never done before; just for example, before this war.
Sentence 116: Now the same thing can be worked out in those Nations -we are working at it- which today have practically no purchasing power.
Sentence 117: It is going to help them enormously, but it is going to help us too.
Sentence 118: It's a perfectly obvious thing; and yet there are a lot of people in this country who can't see the value of putting other people on their feet.
Sentence 119: Now you will begin to find in the United States quite a group of people that will say, in regard to the recent appointment of Governor Lehman as Director of Foreign Relief and Rehabilitation Operations, "Is the United States going to shell out our food and our clothing?
Sentence 120: Are we going to spend our good money to rehabilitate other Nations?
Sentence 121: What's the big idea?"
Sentence 122: Now you will find that an increasing—from now on—slogan.
Sentence 123: It will be put out all over the United States.
Sentence 124: Q. Are we going to, Mr. President?
Sentence 125: THE PRESIDENT: What?
Sentence 126: Sure, we are going to rehabilitate them.
Sentence 127: Why?
Sentence 128: All right.
Sentence 129: Not only from the humanitarian point of view—you needn't stress that unless you want to- there's something in it-
Sentence 130: but from the point of view of our own pocketbooks, and our own safety from future war ....
Q. Mr. President, would you tell us a little bit about what you said about Ecuador last night, and your remarks at the dinner?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 131: I was talking about the general thought that —irrespective of politics or party—that what we sneer at, some of us, as a Good Neighbor Policy is becoming ingrained in all of the Americas.
Sentence 132: The people are beginning to believe that if we continue through another ten years or twenty years to maintain it as a continental policy, that it will work.
Sentence 133: And I mentioned the illustration that they have got the idea, the democratic form of government- democracy- all through there.
Sentence 134: What happened at the end of 1936, when I went down to Rio de Janeiro, and Buenos Aires, and Montevideo?
Sentence 135: Great crowds were in the streets, and the crowds were yelling; but I was interested in what they were saying.
Sentence 136: There were some of them saying, "Viva Roosevelt."
Sentence 137: But the great bulk of them were saying, "Viva la Dernocracia."
Sentence 138: Now that meant something.
Sentence 139: They were talking about democracy as they saw it.
Sentence 140: And it's something that was worth living for and worth fighting for.
Sentence 141: And I don't think there is much question that the policy is part of the national policy here, regardless of what the political complexion of the Administration is here.
Sentence 142: Same way down there.
Sentence 143: In all the other Republics, whoever the President the next time, whoever is the Government in different places, they will go along with the idea of "democracia," and the thought of the Good Neighbor.
Sentence 144: Q. Mr. President, is there any comment you would care to make, sir, on the current Russian offensive?
Sentence 145: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 146: Well, I think all I can say is that I got an intimation of it several days ago, and that I am delighted that it is going so well.
Sentence 147: You can say dee-lighted, if you want to.
Sentence 148: (Laughter)
