Sentence 1: 1942 Excerpts From The Press Conference 44

Q. Have you anything to say about Chairman Ed Flynn's recent speech that has attracted a good deal of attention?
Sentence 2: THE PRESIDENT: I have no idea what Flynn said.
Sentence 3: Q.
Sentence 4: He spoke something like this: that the election of a Congress hostile to the Administration would be equal to a major military disaster, or words to that effect.
Sentence 5: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 6: Well, I will tell you, I suppose the easiest way of putting it is this: that when a country is at war we want Congressmen, regardless of party—get that—to back up the Government of the United States, and who have a record of backing up the Government of the United States in an emergency, regardless of party.
Sentence 7: Q.
Sentence 8: That's it.
Sentence 9: THE PRESIDENT: Put that down again, twice.
Sentence 10: I think that covers it all right. . . .
Sentence 11: Q. Mr. President, did you confer again this week with Dr. Van Kleffens, the Dutch Foreign Minister?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 12: No. I am seeing him today. . . .
Sentence 13: Q.
Sentence 14: It seems to be the impression, sir, which Dr. Van Kleffens has in turn added to, that the Pacific councils to which Mr. Churchill referred are now beginning to shape up.
Sentence 15: Could you throw any light on that?
Sentence 16: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 17: Yes, I think they are.
Sentence 18: Q. Are those councils to be military, or are they to be political and military, sir?
Sentence 19: THE PRESIDENT: I would put it this way, that down in the Abda area, as you know, there is the military command under the supreme command of Wavell.
Sentence 20: Now that is a slipshod way of putting it, but the operations could be called "tactical."
Sentence 21: I refer to the certain long-range strategic questions which would be referred here, and London.
Sentence 22: Well, London of course includes the British Empire people—Australia and New Zealand—and it also includes the Dutch Government in London.
Sentence 23: Now those strategic questions would be referred—it isn't a very good differentiation to make—as tactical and strategic.
Sentence 24: It isn't a clear line always, but it is the best terminology that I can think of at this time.
Sentence 25: Now on the strategical things that would be referred here, or London- long-range again-
Sentence 26: you would have to divide them into two parts.
Sentence 27: One would be the military and naval, purely, and they would go to the joint staffs, on which there would be consultations, of course, with Australian, New Zealand, and Dutch officers.
Sentence 28: Another group of questions that would be referred would be more of a political or government character and they would be referred to the American Government, the British Government, the Dutch Government, and the Colonials' Governments represented in London.
Sentence 29: Now, of course, there again you run up against the distinct possibility that you will have something that is partly political and partly strategic.
Sentence 30: I am thinking in very broad terms, nothing specific at all.
Sentence 31: Where they have both characteristics they probably would be referred both to the governmental agencies-
Sentence 32: the political agencies-
Sentence 33: and then the military and naval.
Sentence 34: Q. Would these so-called councils, sir, sit in Washington, or would they sit both in Washington and London?
Sentence 35: THE PRESIDENT: Oh, they are—they are sitting both in Washington and London.
Sentence 36: Q.
Sentence 37: They are sitting?
Sentence 38: THE PRESIDENT: They are.
Sentence 39: Q.
Sentence 40: They are in being now?
Sentence 41: THE PRESIDENT: Oh, they have been for a month.
Sentence 42: Q.
Sentence 43: For a month?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 44: Yes.
Sentence 45: Q. Thank you, sir.
Sentence 46: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 47: And I think there is no reason why we shouldn't point out that on the decision end of these things there is very close cooperation between Washington and London.
Sentence 48: I suppose the easiest way of putting it is this: that when a question is raised down in that area that has to be referred, there are two copies made.
Sentence 49: One copy is marked for action, and that comes to Washington.
Sentence 50: The other copy goes to London, and that is marked for recommendation to Washington.
Sentence 51: And, in the event of disagreement, it comes to the higher authorities in both places.
Sentence 52: There haven't been any disagreements to date, and probably won't be.
Sentence 53: But the "action" copy comes to Washington. . . .
Sentence 54: Q. Mr. President, do you expect any early results from the 500 million-dollar loan to China?
Sentence 55: THE PRESIDENT: I think so.
Sentence 56: Quite aside from what might be called the psychological point of view, assuring China through the loan that we are solidly behind them and are helping in every way that is physically possible in the military sense, as fast as we can- this will be a very definite relief to the whole financial problem of China itself, through stabilization of their currency, and the ability to get more things that they very greatly need for their armies. . . .
