Sentence 1: 1942 Excerpts From The Press Conference 37

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I have a request to make.
Sentence 3: The U.S.O., the Red Cross, and the American Library Association have sponsored a campaign to provide ten million books for soldiers, sailors, and marines wherever they may be, and they are planning to have Friday, April 17, as Victory Book Day.
Sentence 4: This campaign has been going on for a short time, and they have already got five million books for the soldiers, sailors and marines, and they want five million more.
Sentence 5: The plan is that on Friday the milkman, the baker, the department store delivery truck, and everybody else, is to be authorized to pick up the books.
Sentence 6: And school children and boys and girls in high schools and college will be asked to bring books for the fighting men to their school on that day.
Sentence 7: Motion-picture houses are going to collect books on that day.
Sentence 8: This campaign has already had a great deal of support from many newspapers throughout the country, who have put on the "Give a Book" campaign.
Sentence 9: They deserve a word of thanks, plus a request to renew their efforts, and the efforts of the radio people, to carry on until the needed ten million books are in the hands of the armed forces of the country.
Sentence 10: So that is a word of encouragement to all of you to get in on this campaign.
Sentence 11: Q. Mr. President, do you have any suggestions as to what sort of books should be contributed?
Sentence 12: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 13: Yes.
Sentence 14: Anything—except algebra.
Sentence 15: (Laughter)
Sentence 16: Well, in other words, the kind of book that you would read in your own family.
Sentence 17: I suppose that is the easiest criterion anything that would interest you and the family.
Sentence 18: Q. Mr. President, is Governor [Herbert] Lehman of New York coming to Washington, or going to enter the Government in some official capacity?
Sentence 19: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 20: Oh, I have never heard of it, except from news-paper stories.
Sentence 21: Q. (interposing) Do you think it would be a good idea?
Sentence 22: THE PRESIDENT: (continuing)
Sentence 23: The only information I have what-soever.
Sentence 24: Q. Mr. President, have you found a name yet for the global war?
Sentence 25: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 26: Well, I took it up with the-
Sentence 27: I talked to the meeting of the Pan American Union and the Ambassadors and Ministers of our sister Republics this morning about it, and I suggested a name myself—The Survival War.
Sentence 28: Q. (interposing) Survival?
THE PRESIDENT: (continuing) I always liked the idea.
Sentence 29: What was said this morning, it was taken down, and Steve has it for you.
Sentence 30: (Turning to Mr. Early)
MR. EARLY: Afterwards.
Sentence 31: THE PRESIDENT: As soon as you have finished you can get it.
Sentence 32: Q. Mr. President, is that going to be it, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 33: What?
Sentence 34: Q. Is it officially named?
Sentence 35: THE PRESIDENT: No, no.
Sentence 36: I just threw that name out.
Sentence 37: They liked it.
Sentence 38: Q. Mr. President, speaking of newspaper stories, there is also one that Joseph Kennedy might come back to take some kind of job in connection—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) I also read that in the newspapers.
Sentence 39: Q.
Sentence 40: You don't know any more-
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) No.
Sentence 41: Certain papers.
Sentence 42: I wouldn't say that was a connotation of what I have in mind for all newspapers by any means.
Sentence 43: The connotation might apply to a few papers.
Sentence 44: Q. One paper started off that story by beating the life out of him.
Sentence 45: Was that the story that you read?
Sentence 46: THE PRESIDENT: (laughing) I don't know.
Sentence 47: Q. Mr. President, anything new on the over-all inflation—anti-inflation campaign?
Sentence 48: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 49: No.
Sentence 50: We are working on it right along.
Sentence 51: Q. Is there a Message going up on it?
Sentence 52: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 53: What?
Sentence 54: Q. Is there a Message to go to Congress on it?
Sentence 55: THE PRESIDENT: I don't know.
Sentence 56: I haven't made up my mind as to date or method.
Sentence 57: I wish you could—all of you—give up the word "inflation," because very few people know what it means.
Sentence 58: Very few people in this room know what it means.
Sentence 59: I am not quite clear myself, so I am not using the word.
Sentence 60: Q.
Sentence 61: What word are you using?
Sentence 62: THE PRESIDENT: You will see, in time.
Sentence 63: Q. Having a contest to name it?
Sentence 64: Q. Mr. President, there is a great deal of disturbed feeling in Australia as reflected by dispatches by American correspondents from there, as to the authority that General MacArthur has, and as to what naval forces are at his disposal.
Sentence 65: Could you tell us, sir, whether—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) I can only tell you in a negative way.
Sentence 66: There has been singularly little error—there has been overwhelming correctness on the part of the press in talking about the command of General MacArthur.
Sentence 67: There has been a very minor part of the press or newspapers which have—I trust not deliberately—completely falsified what I did say the other day.
Sentence 68: What I have in mind is that this particular little group has talked about the command of the Pacific being under General MacArthur.
Sentence 69: Of course, any reference to the stenographic minutes of the press conference will show that nothing like that was said.
Sentence 70: The phrase was Southwest Pacific.
Sentence 71: And that is true today, as it was when I stated it two or three weeks ago.
Sentence 72: I think that's all that need be said—Southwest Pacific.
Sentence 73: Q.
Sentence 74: In other words, he has full authority there, sir?
Sentence 75: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 76: In Southwest Pacific.
Q. Including naval?
THE PRESIDENT: Including naval.
Q. Does that include New Zealand?
Sentence 77: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 78: Well now, there is a difficult thing, because there are operational problems down there which might be affected by an actual public statement as to just where the area command began and where it ended.
Sentence 79: I could cite two or three examples of that, which you would readily understand if I were to cite them.
Sentence 80: But for operational reasons we can't talk in terms of whether this particular—I am not saying New Zealand, I am thinking of the other islands—little bits of islands—as to whether they fall into one zone or fall into the other zone.
Sentence 81: They may or they may not.
Sentence 82: And it is better to have the enemy do the guessing than for us to tell them.
Sentence 83: Q. Does that difficulty apply also to the Fiji Islands and New Caledonia?
THE PRESIDENT: All of the islands down through there.
Sentence 84: I should think probably the rule of common sense would govern when I say Southwest Pacific. . . .
Sentence 85: Q. Mr. President, getting back to the inflation program, does that contemplate any further savings in non-defense expenditures?
Sentence 86: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 87: Oh, I don't know.
Sentence 88: I had an awfully funny time on that.
Sentence 89: There was a very, very famous economist who wrote to me about it—a very serious person, a very old friend of mine, I like him a lot, and he put his question to me just as you put yours.
Sentence 90: In other words, a generality.
Sentence 91: And I wrote him back, "Have you got a copy of the Budget?
Sentence 92: If not, I will send you one.
Sentence 93: Tell me where."
Sentence 94: Well, that was six weeks ago, and he has written me three letters since, and he hasn't answered the question.
Sentence 95: So my question of course is to you just what it would be to him: Where?
Sentence 96: In what particular?
Sentence 97: What is a non-defense expenditure?
Sentence 98: Q. Does that mean, Mr. President, there will not be any?
Sentence 99: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 100: That is like one of his three replies to me.
Sentence 101: It begs the question which I asked.
Sentence 102: Q. Well, Mr. President, you are very familiar, I presume, with the list of items that Senator
Sentence 103: [Harry] Byrd and his Committee have put up.
Sentence 104: THE PRESIDENT: (interjecting) Yes.
Sentence 105: Q. (continuing) You have no comment on that?
Sentence 106: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 107: Yes.
Sentence 108: Well, let me give you a very, very simple example.
Sentence 109: I think on that list was the abolishing of the whole of N.Y.A.
Sentence 110: Now at the present time N.Y.A. is training about 400,000 boys and girls each year to go into industry.
Sentence 111: All right.
Sentence 112: Now, if we abolish N.Y.A. we have to set up something else to train 400,000 people.
Sentence 113: Query: Where is the economy?
Sentence 114: Now that is a very good example.
Sentence 115: And of course that is a necessary part of the war work.
Sentence 116: I don't care where they are trained.
Sentence 117: Heavens, you can put them under—oh, heavens, I don't care—if you want to you can put them under the Secretary of State.
Sentence 118: I don't care where it is, as long as I get 400,000 trained boys and girls. . . .
