Sentence 1: 1943 Excerpts From The Press Conference 8

MR. DONALDSON: All in. . . .
Sentence 2: Q. Mr. President, after our last meeting with you, it appears that someone stayed behind and received word that you no longer like the term "New Deal."
Sentence 3: Would you care to express any opinion to the rest of us?
Sentence 4: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 5: Oh, I supposed somebody would ask that.
Sentence 6: I will have to be terribly careful in the future how I talk to people after these press conferences.
Sentence 7: However, what he reported was accurate reporting, and—well, I hesitated for a bit as to whether I would say anything.
Sentence 8: It all comes down, really, to a rather puerile and political side of things.
Sentence 9: I think that the two go very well together—puerile and political.
Sentence 10: However, of course lots of people have to be told how to spell "cat," even people with a normally good education.
Sentence 11: And so I got thinking the thing over, and I jotted down some things that a lot of people who can't spell "cat" had forgotten entirely.
Sentence 12: And of course, the net of it is this—how did the New Deal come into existence?
Sentence 13: It was because there was an awfully sick patient called the United States of America, and it was suffering from a grave internal disorder- awfully sick-
Sentence 14: all kinds of things had happened to this patient, all internal things.
Sentence 15: And they sent for the doctor.
Sentence 16: And it was a long, long process —took several years before those ills, in that particular illness of ten years ago, were remedied.
Sentence 17: But after a while they were remedied.
Sentence 18: And on all those ills of 1933, things had to be done to cure the patient internally.
Sentence 19: And it was done; it took a number of years.
Sentence 20: And there were certain specific remedies that the old doctor gave the patient, and I jotted down a few of those remedies.
Sentence 21: The people who are peddling all this talk about "New Deal" today, they are not telling about why the patient had to have remedies.
Sentence 22: I am inclined to think that the country ought to have it brought back to their memories, and I think the country ought to be asked too, as to whether all these rather inexperienced critics shouldn't be asked directly just which of the remedies should be taken away from the patient, if you should come down with a similar illness in the future.
Sentence 23: It's all right now--it's all right internally--now--if they just leave him alone.
Sentence 24: But since then, two years ago, the patient had a very bad accident- not an internal trouble.
Sentence 25: Two years ago, on the seventh of December, he was in a pretty bad smashup -broke his hip, broke his leg in two or three places, broke a wrist and an arm, and some ribs; and they didn't think he would live, for a while.
Sentence 26: And then he began to "come to"; and he has been in charge of a partner of the old doctor.
Sentence 27: Old Dr. New Deal didn't know "nothing" about legs and arms.
Sentence 28: He knew a great deal about internal medicine, but nothing about surgery.
Sentence 29: So he got his partner, who was an orthopedic surgeon, Dr. Win-the-War, to take care of this fellow who had been in this bad accident.
Sentence 30: And the result is that the patient is back on his feet.
Sentence 31: He has given up his crutches.
Sentence 32: He isn't wholly well yet, and he won't be until he wins the war.
Sentence 33: And I think that is almost as simple, that little allegory, as learning again how to spell "cat."
Sentence 34: The remedies that the old Dr. New Deal used were for internal troubles.
Sentence 35: He saved the banks of the United States and set up a sound banking system.
Sentence 36: We don't need to change the law now, although obviously there are some people who don't like saving the banks who would like to change the whole system, so that banks would have the great privilege under American freedom of going "bust" any time they wanted to again.
Sentence 37: Well, at the same time, one of the old remedies was Federal deposit insurance, to guarantee bank deposits; and yet I suppose there must be some people, because they make so much smoke, who would like to go back to the old system and let any bank, at will, go and lose all its depositors' money with no redress.
Sentence 38: In those days, another remedy was saving homes from foreclosure, through the H.O.L.C.; saving farms from foreclosure by the Farm Credit Administration.
Sentence 39: I suppose some people today would like to repeal all that and go back to the conditions of 1932, when the people out West mobbed a Federal Judge because he was trying to carry out the existing law of the land in foreclosing a farm; rescuing agriculture from disaster—which it was pretty close to—by the Triple A [Agricultural Adjustment Administration] and Soil Conservation; establishing truth in the sale of securities and protecting stock investors through the S.E.C.
Sentence 40: And yet I happen to know that there is an undercover drive going on in this country today to repeal the S.E.C., and "let's sell blue-sky securities to the widows and orphans and everybody else in this country."
Sentence 41: A lot of people would like to do that, take off all the rules and let old Mr. Skin skin the public again.
Sentence 42: Well, we have got slum clearance—decent housing; and there hasn't been enough done on slum clearance.
Sentence 43: I don't think that people who go into slums in this country would advocate stopping that, or curtailing the program, although of course a small percentage of real-estate men would like to have slums back again, because they pay money.
Sentence 44: Reduction of farm tenancy.
Sentence 45: Well, your old doctor, in the old days, old Doctor New Deal, he put in old-age insurance, he put in unemployment insurance.
Sentence 46: I don't think the country would want to give up old-age insurance or unemployment insurance, although there are a lot of people in the country who would like to keep us from having it.
Sentence 47: We are taking care of a great many crippled and blind people, giving a great deal of maternity help, through the Federal aid system.
Sentence 48: Well, some people want to abolish it all.
Sentence 49: And the public works program, to provide work, to build thousands of permanent improvements—incidentally, giving work to the unemployed, both the P.W.A. and W.P.A.
Federal funds, through F.E.R.A., to starving people.
Sentence 50: The principle of a minimum wage and maximum hours.
Sentence 51: Civilian Conservation Corps.
Sentence 52: Reforestation.
Sentence 53: The N.Y.A., for thousands of literally underprivileged young people.
Sentence 54: Abolishing child labor.
Sentence 55: It was not thought to be constitutional in the old days, but it turned out to be.
Sentence 56: Reciprocal trade agreements, which of course do have a tremendous effect on internal diseases.
Sentence 57: Stimulation of private home building through the F.H.A.
Sentence 58: The protection of consumers from extortionate rates by utilities.
Sentence 59: The breaking up of utility monopolies, through Sam Rayburn's law.
Sentence 60: The resettlement of farmers from marginal lands that ought not to be cultivated; regional physical developments, such as T.V.A.; getting electricity out to the farmers through the R.E.A.; flood control; and water conservation; drought control--remember the years we went through that!--and drought relief; crop insurance, and the ever normal granary; and assistance to farm cooperatives.
Sentence 61: Well, conservation of natural resources.
Sentence 62: Well, my list just totaled up to thirty, and I probably left out half of them.
Sentence 63: But at the present time, obviously, the principal emphasis, the overwhelming first emphasis should be on winning the war.
Sentence 64: In other words, we are suffering from that bad accident, not from an internal disease.
Sentence 65: And when victory comes, the program of the past, of course, has got to be carried on, in my judgment, with what is going on in other countries—postwar program—because it will pay.
Sentence 66: We can't go into an economic isolationism, any more than it would pay to go into a military isolationism.
Sentence 67: This is not just a question of dollars and cents, although some people think it is.
Sentence 68: It is a question of the long range, which ties in human beings with dollars, to the benefit of the dollars and the benefit of the human beings as a part of this postwar program, which of course hasn't been settled on at all, except in generalities.
Sentence 69: But, as I said about the meeting in Teheran and the meeting in Cairo, we are still in the generality stage, not in the detail stage, because we are talking about principles.
Sentence 70: Later on we will come down to the detail stage, and we can take up anything at all and discuss it then.
Sentence 71: We don't want to confuse people by talking about it now.
Sentence 72: But it seems pretty clear that we must plan for, and help to bring about, an expanded economy which will result in more security, in more employment, in more recreation, in more education, in more health, in better housing for all of our citizens, so that the conditions of 1932 and the beginning of 1933 won't come back again.
Sentence 73: Now, have those words been sufficiently simple and understood for you to write a story about?
Sentence 74: Q. Does that all add up to a fourth-term declaration?
Sentence 75: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 76: Oh, now, we are not talking about things like that now.
Sentence 77: You are getting picayune.
Sentence 78: That's a grand word to use—another word beginning with a p—picayune.
Sentence 79: I know you won't mind my saying that, but I have to say something like that.
Sentence 80: Q.
Sentence 81: I don't mean to be picayune, but I am not clear about this parable.
Sentence 82: The New Deal, I thought, was dynamic, and I don't know whether you mean that you had to leave off to win the war and then will take up again the social program, or whether you think the patient is cured?
Sentence 83: THE PRESIDENT: I will explain it this way.
Sentence 84: I will ask you a question.
Sentence 85: In 1865, after the Civil War, there was a definite program arranged for and carried through under the leadership of the Congressman from Pennsylvania, Thaddeus Stevens, who was the leader of the Republican Party at that time.
Sentence 86: That was the policy.
Sentence 87: It lasted for nearly ten years, a policy of repression and punishment of the whole of the South.
Sentence 88: That was the policy of the United States.
Sentence 89: Well, they didn't like it at all—the country didn't.
Sentence 90: And finally, after ten years, they threw it out.
Sentence 91: Now, do you think that twenty-five years later, in 1890, that we should have gone back to the same old policy?
Sentence 92: I don't.
Sentence 93: The country didn't go back to it.
Sentence 94: You have a program to meet the needs of the country.
Sentence 95: The 1933 program that started to go into effect that year took a great many years.
Sentence 96: If you remember what I said, it was a program to meet the problems of 1933.
Sentence 97: Now, in time, there will have to be a new program, whoever runs the Government.
Sentence 98: We are not talking in terms of 1933's program.
Sentence 99: We have done nearly all of that, but that doesn't avoid or make impossible or unneedful another program, when the time comes.
Sentence 100: When the time comes.
