Sentence 1: 1943 Excerpts From The Press Conference 7

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I want to say in connection with the trip that I thing else, on these voyages.
Sentence 3: The Secret Service and the Army of view of the conduct of the war, but also for the discussions that I hope will have definite and very beneficial effects for the postwar period, based on the general thought that when we win the war we don't want to have another one as long as this generation is alive.
Sentence 4: The only sad note was the news I got, on the way home, of Mac's [Marvin H. Mcintyre] death, because I think all you older people realize what that means to me, as he and I had been together practically since the earliest days in the Navy Department, back as far as 1913.
Sentence 5: I think we will all miss him very much.
Sentence 6: I know I will.
Sentence 7: As soon as I got here this morning, I talked with the legislative leaders in regard to possibly going up to tell the Congress about the trip, but there's quite an accumulation of things, and I don't want to make carefully prepared addresses in too large numbers. . . .
Sentence 8: Q. Sir, could you tell us any of your personal impressions of Marshal Stalin?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 9: Well, the actual fact of meeting him lived up to my highest expectations.
Sentence 10: We had many excellent talks.
Sentence 11: And I was also extremely glad to meet the Generalissimo, Chiang Kai-shek.
Sentence 12: And on the whole, the mere fact of getting to know those two world leaders, I think, is going to make for excellent relations in the future.
Sentence 13: Q. Mr. President, would you care to tell us how those talks were conducted?
Sentence 14: Was it an easy matter?
Sentence 15: THE PRESIDENT: Through an interpreter, which of course is not as easy as if I spoke Russian and Chinese and they spoke English, but still we got on all right.
Sentence 16: Q. Facile at all?
Sentence 17: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 18: Oh, yes.
Sentence 19: Q. Back and forth?
Sentence 20: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 21: Oh my, yes.
Sentence 22: Yes, yes.
Sentence 23: Q. Was it stodgy, or anything of that sort?
Sentence 24: THE PRESIDENT: Not stodgy at all, except the answer sometimes came before the translation was finished.
Sentence 25: (Laughter)
Q. Did you find Stalin—all we know about him is that picture with a handle-bar mustache, which evidently is out of date.
Sentence 26: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 27: Yes, that is rather out of date.
Sentence 28: Q.
Sentence 29: What type would you call him?
Sentence 30: Is he dour?
Sentence 31: THE PRESIDENT: I would call him something like me—he is a realist.
Sentence 32: Q.
Sentence 33: Yes, he seems to be.
Sentence 34: THE PRESIDENT: (laughing) Yes.
Sentence 35: MAY CRAIG: Tell us about it.
Sentence 36: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 37: May, I don't write no social column.
Sentence 38: (Much laughter)
Q. Sir, does he share your view that there is hope of preventing another war in this generation?
Sentence 39: THE PRESIDENT: Very definitely, if the people who want that objective will back it up.
Sentence 40: Rather interesting, up at Teheran with Mr. Stalin, the Prime Minister and I—the Chinese of course didn't go to Teheran—I saw them in Cairo—we figured out that the Governments and associated Nations that were on our side represented between two-thirds and three-quarters of the entire population of the world, which I thought was rather a significant fact.
Sentence 41: In other words, world opinion if it ever does count, will count in circumstances like that. . . .
Sentence 42: Q. Mr. President, what did you call Mr. Stalin?
Sentence 43: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 44: I told him it was a beautiful day.
Sentence 45: Q.
Sentence 46: What did you call him?
Sentence 47: How did you address him?
Sentence 48: THE PRESIDENT: Marsha . . . .
Sentence 49: Q. Mr. President, is there anything you can tell us about the method of your travels?
Sentence 50: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 51: Well, I think I can put it this way, mostly that when I—well, I couldn't put it that way because it might disclose something else.
Sentence 52: (Laughter) I went to Teheran in a plane.
Sentence 53: You can't go there by water.
Sentence 54: Q. Did you go anywhere by water, sir?
Sentence 55: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 56: Oh, now you are asking questions.
Sentence 57: That's different.
Sentence 58: Q.
Sentence 59: That's what I get paid for.
Sentence 60: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 61: Well, one thing that irks me just as much as anything else, on these voyages.
Sentence 62: The Secret Service and the Army and the Navy are on my neck all the time for what they call security reasons; and the reason is, when you leave a place and issue a statement, it is obvious you are going away.
Sentence 63: Well, I would give the thing out right away, if I had my choice, but some places it isn't considered in the best interests of security, because then they would know that you were leaving, and throughout the whole distance, you are practically under the range of German planes.
Sentence 64: And it's like shooting a duck sitting on the water for a German pursuit plane to go after a transport plane without any guns on it.
Sentence 65: Well, for instance, I don't put much stock in this, but when we got to Teheran I went to the American Legation, which is about a mile from the Russian compound—a high wall.
Sentence 66: And next door to them is the British Embassy.
Sentence 67: And that night, late, I got word from Marshal Stalin that they had got word of a German plot.
Sentence 68: Well, no use going into details.
Sentence 69: Everybody was more or less upset, Secret Service, and so forth.
Sentence 70: And he pleaded with me to go down to the Russian Embassy—they have two or three different buildings in the compound—and he offered to turn over one of them to me, and that would avoid either his, or Mr. Churchill's, or my having to take trips through the streets, in order to see each other.
Sentence 71: So the next morning I moved out, down to the Russian compound.
Sentence 72: I was extremely comfortable there, and it was just another wall from the British place, so that none of the three of us had to go out on the streets, for example.
Sentence 73: But of course, in a place like Teheran there are hundreds of German spies, probably, around the place, and I suppose it would make a pretty good haul if they could get all three of us going through the streets.
Sentence 74: (Laughter)
Sentence 75: And of course, if your future plans are known, or if they can guess the time because of departure from one place, they can get German pursuit planes over the transport plane very easily. . . .
Sentence 76: Q. Mr. President, is there anything you can tell us about General Patton?
Sentence 77: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 78: No. I saw him in Sicily.
Sentence 79: I saw him, and General Clark and General Eisenhower went over with me.
Sentence 80: I think probably that you may, if you want to write a piece, stick in there the story of a former President [Lincoln] who had a good deal of trouble in finding a successful commander for the armies of the United States.
Sentence 81: And one of them turned up one day, and he was very successful.
Sentence 82: And some very good citizens went to the President and protested: "You can't keep him.
Sentence 83: He drinks.
Sentence 84: "
"It must be a good brand of liquor," was the answer.
Sentence 85: Q. Speaking of drinking, did you attend one of those dinners where they had forty-five toasts?
Sentence 86: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 87: Well, I can tell you this.
Sentence 88: We had one banquet where we had dinner in the Russian style.
Sentence 89: Very good dinner, too.
Sentence 90: Russian style means a number of toasts, and I counted up to three hundred and sixty-five toasts.
Sentence 91: (Laughter)
Sentence 92: And we all went away sober.
Sentence 93: It's a remarkable thing what you can do, if you try.
Sentence 94: (More laughter)
Sentence 95: Q.
Sentence 96: How, Mr. President?
Sentence 97: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT: When you go up to those places like Teheran, you learn!
Sentence 98: I made one glass of vodka that big—(indicating a two-inch width with his fingers) last for about twenty toasts—just about.
Sentence 99: (Laughter)
