Sentence 1: 1943 Address Ottawa Canada

Your Excellency Mr. Prime Minister, Members of the Parliament, and all my good friends and neighbors of the Dominion of Canada:
Sentence 2: It was exactly five years ago last Wednesday that I came to Canada to receive the high honor of a degree at Queen's University.
Sentence 3: On that occasion- one year before the invasion of Poland, three years before Pearl Harbor— I said:
"We in the Americas are no longer a far away continent, to which the eddies of controversies beyond the seas could bring no interest or no harm.
Sentence 4: Instead, we in the Americas have become a consideration to every propaganda office and to every general staff beyond the seas.
Sentence 5: The vast amount of our resources, the vigor of our commerce and the strength of our men have made us vital factors in world peace whether we choose it or not.
Sentence 6: "
We did not choose this war—and that "we" includes each and every one of the United Nations.
Sentence 7: War was violently forced upon us by criminal aggressors who measure their standards of morality by the extent of the death and the destruction that they can inflict upon their neighbors.
Sentence 8: In this war, Canadians and Americans have fought shoulder to shoulder—as our men and our women and our children have worked together and played together in happier times of peace.
Sentence 9: Today, in devout gratitude, we are celebrating a brilliant victory won by British and Canadian and American fighting men in Sicily.
Sentence 10: Today, we rejoice also in another event for which we need not apologize.
Sentence 11: A year ago Japan occupied several of the Aleutian Islands on our side of the ocean, and made a great "to-do" about the invasion of the continent of North America.
Sentence 12: I regret to say that some Americans and some Canadians wished our Governments to withdraw from the Atlantic and the Mediterranean campaigns and divert all our vast supplies and strength to the removal of the Japs from a few rocky specks in the North Pacific.
Sentence 13: Today, our wiser councils have maintained our efforts in the Atlantic area, and the Mediterranean, and the China Seas, and the Southwest Pacific with ever-growing contributions; and in the Northwest Pacific a relatively small campaign has been assisted by the Japs themselves in the elimination of that last Jap from Attu and Kiska.
Sentence 14: We have been told that the Japs never surrender; their headlong retreat satisfies us just as well.
Sentence 15: Great councils are being held here on the free and honored soil of Canada- councils which look to the future conduct of this war and to the years of building a new progress for mankind.
Sentence 16: To these councils Canadians and Americans alike again welcome that wise and good and gallant gentleman, the Prime Minister of Great Britain.
Sentence 17: Mr. King, my old friend, may I through you thank the people of Canada for their hospitality to all of us.
Sentence 18: Your course and mine have run so closely and affectionately during these many long years that this meeting adds another link to that chain.
Sentence 19: I have always felt at home in Canada and you, I think, have always felt at home in the United States.
Sentence 20: During the past few days in Quebec, the Combined Staffs have been sitting around a table—which is a good custom—talking things over, discussing ways and means, in the manner of friends, in the manner of partners, and may I even say in the manner of members of the same family.
Sentence 21: We have talked constructively of our common purposes in this war-of our determination to achieve victory in the shortest possible time—of our essential cooperation with our great and brave fighting allies.
Sentence 22: And we have arrived, harmoniously, at certain definite conclusions.
Sentence 23: Of course, I am not at liberty to disclose just what these conclusions are.
Sentence 24: But, in due time, we shall communicate the secret information of the Quebec Conference to Germany, Italy, and Japan.
Sentence 25: We shall communicate this information to our enemies in the only language their twisted minds seem capable of understanding.
Sentence 26: Sometimes I wish that that great master of intuition, the Nazi leader, could have been present in spirit at the Quebec Conference-
Sentence 27: I am thoroughly glad that he wasn't there in person.
Sentence 28: If he and his generals had known our plans they would have realized that discretion is still the better part of valor and that surrender would pay them better now than later.
Sentence 29: The evil characteristic that makes a Nazi a Nazi is his utter inability to understand and therefore to respect the qualities or the rights of his fellow men.
Sentence 30: His only method of dealing with his neighbor is first to delude him with lies, then to attack him treacherously, then beat him down and step on him, and then either kill him or enslave him.
Sentence 31: And the same thing is true of the fanatical militarists of Japan.
Sentence 32: Because their own instincts and impulses are essentially inhuman, our enemies simply cannot comprehend how it is that decent, sensible individual human beings manage to get along together and live together as good neighbors.
Sentence 33: That is why our enemies are doing their desperate best to misrepresent the purposes and the results of this Quebec Conference.
Sentence 34: They still seek to divide and conquer allies who refuse to be divided just as cheerfully as they refuse to be conquered.
Sentence 35: We spend our energies and our resources and the very lives of our sons and daughters because a band of gangsters in the community of Nations declines to recognize the fundamentals of decent, human conduct.
Sentence 36: We have been forced to call out what we in the United States would call the sheriff's posse to break up the gang in order that gangsterism may be eliminated in the community of Nations.
Sentence 37: We are making sure- absolutely, irrevocably sure—that this 'time the lesson is driven home to them once and for all.
Sentence 38: Yes, we are going to be rid of outlaws this time.
Sentence 39: Every one of the United Nations believes that only a real and lasting peace can justify the sacrifices we are making, and our unanimity gives us confidence in seeking that goal.
Sentence 40: It is no secret that at Quebec there was much talk of the postwar world.
Sentence 41: That discussion was doubtless duplicated simultaneously in dozens of Nations and hundreds of cities and among millions of people.
Sentence 42: There is a longing in the air.
Sentence 43: It is not a longing to go back to what they call "the good old days."
Sentence 44: I have distinct reservations as to how good "the good old days" were.
Sentence 45: I would rather believe that we can achieve new and better days.
Sentence 46: Absolute victory in this war will give greater opportunities to the world, because the winning of the war in itself is certainly proving to all of us up here that concerted action can accomplish things.
Sentence 47: Surely we can make strides toward a greater freedom from want than the world has yet enjoyed.
Sentence 48: Surely by unanimous action in driving out the outlaws and keeping them under heel forever, we can attain a freedom from fear of violence.
Sentence 49: I am everlastingly angry only at those who assert vociferously that the four freedoms and the Atlantic Charter are nonsense because they are unattainable.
Sentence 50: If those people had lived a century and a half ago they would have sneered and said that the Declaration of Independence was utter piffle.
Sentence 51: If they had lived nearly a thousand years ago they would have laughed uproariously at the ideals of Magna Charta.
Sentence 52: And if they had lived several thousand years ago they would have derided Moses when he came from the Mountain with the Ten Commandments.
Sentence 53: We concede that these great teachings are not perfectly lived up to today, but I would rather be a builder than a wrecker, hoping always that the structure of life is growing— not dying.
Sentence 54: May the destroyers who still persist in our midst decrease.
Sentence 55: They, like some of our enemies, have a long road to travel before they accept the ethics of humanity.
Sentence 56: Some day, in the distant future perhaps—but some day, it is certain—all of them will remember with the Master, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.
Sentence 57: "
Monsieur le Premier: Ma visite a la ville historique de Quebec rappelle vivement a mon esprit que le Canada est une nation fondee sur l'union de deux grandes races.
Sentence 58: L'harmonie de leur association dans l'egalite peut servir d'exemple a l'humanite toute entiere—un exemple partout dans le monde.
