Sentence 1: 1943 State The Union Address 0

Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Seventy-eighth Congress:
This Seventy-eighth Congress assembles in one of the great moments in the history of the Nation.
Sentence 2: The past year was perhaps the most crucial for modern civilization; the coming year will be filled with violent conflicts- yet with high promise of better things.
Sentence 3: We must appraise the events of 1942 according to their relative importance; we must exercise a sense of proportion.
Sentence 4: First in importance in the American scene has been the inspiring proof of the great qualities of our fighting men.
Sentence 5: They have demonstrated these qualities in adversity as well as in victory.
Sentence 6: As long as our flag flies over this Capitol, Americans will honor the soldiers, sailors, and marines who fought our first battles of this war against overwhelming odds the heroes, living and dead, of Wake and Bataan and Guadalcanal, of the Java Sea and Midway and the North Atlantic convoys.
Sentence 7: Their unconquerable spirit will live forever.
Sentence 8: By far the largest and most important developments in the whole world-wide strategic picture of 1942 were the events of the long fronts in Russia: first, the implacable defense of Stalingrad; and, second, the offensives by the Russian armies at various points that started in the latter part of November and which still roll on with great force and effectiveness.
Sentence 9: The other major events of the year were: the series of Japanese advances in the Philippines, the East Indies, Malaya, and Burma; the stopping of that Japanese advance in the mid-Pacific, the South Pacific, and the Indian Oceans; the successful defense of the Near East by the British counterattack through Egypt and Libya; the American-British occupation of North Africa.
Sentence 10: Of continuing importance in the year 1942 were the unending and bitterly contested battles of the convoy routes, and the gradual passing of air superiority from the Axis to the United Nations.
Sentence 11: The Axis powers knew that they must win the war in 1942 -or eventually lose everything.
Sentence 12: I do not need to tell you that our enemies did not win the war in 1942.
Sentence 13: In the Pacific area, our most important victory in 1942 was the air and naval battle off Midway Island.
Sentence 14: That action is historically important because it secured for our use communication lines stretching thousands of miles in every direction.
Sentence 15: In placing this emphasis on the Battle of Midway, I am not unmindful of other successful actions in the Pacific, in the air and on land and afloat —especially those on the Coral Sea and New Guinea and in the Solomon Islands.
Sentence 16: But these actions were essentially defensive.
Sentence 17: They were part of the delaying strategy that characterized this phase of the war.
Sentence 18: During this period we inflicted steady losses upon the enemy -great losses of Japanese planes and naval vessels, transports and cargo ships.
Sentence 19: As early as one year ago, we set as a primary task in the war of the Pacific a day-by-day and week-by-week and month-by-month destruction of more Japanese war materials than Japanese industry could replace.
Sentence 20: Most certainly, that task has been and is being performed by our fighting ships and planes.
Sentence 21: And a large part of this task has been accomplished by the gallant crews of our American submarines who strike on the other side of the Pacific at Japanese ships—right up at the very mouth of the harbor of Yokohama.
Sentence 22: We know that as each day goes by, Japanese strength in ships and planes is going down and down, and American strength in ships and planes is going up and up.
Sentence 23: And so I sometimes feel that the eventual outcome can now be put on a mathematical basis.
Sentence 24: That will become evident to the Japanese people themselves when we strike at their own home islands, and bomb them constantly from the air.
Sentence 25: And in the attacks against Japan, we shall be joined with the heroic people of China—that great people whose ideals of peace are so closely akin to our own.
Sentence 26: Even today we are flying as much lend-lease material into China as ever traversed the Burma Road, flying it over mountains 17,000 feet high, flying blind through sleet and snow.
Sentence 27: We shall overcome all the formidable obstacles, and get the battle equipment into China to shatter the power of our common enemy.
Sentence 28: From this war, China will realize the security, the prosperity and the dignity, which Japan has sought so ruthlessly to destroy.
Sentence 29: The period of our defensive attrition in the Pacific is drawing to a close.
Sentence 30: Now our aim is to force the Japanese to fight.
Sentence 31: Last year, we stopped them.
Sentence 32: This year, we intend to advance.
Sentence 33: Turning now to the European theater of war, during this past year it was clear that our first task was to lessen the concentrated pressure on the Russian front by compelling Germany to divert part of her manpower and equipment to another theater of war.
Sentence 34: After months of secret planning and preparation in the utmost detail, an enormous amphibious expedition was embarked for French North Africa from the United States and the United Kingdom in literally hundreds of ships.
Sentence 35: It reached its objectives with very small losses, and has already produced an important effect upon the whole situation of the war.
Sentence 36: It has opened to attack what Mr. Churchill well described as "the under-belly of the Axis," and it has removed the always dangerous threat of an Axis attack through West Africa against the South Atlantic Ocean and the continent of South America itself.
Sentence 37: The well-timed and splendidly executed offensive from Egypt by the British Eighth Army was a part of the same major strategy of the United Nations.
Sentence 38: Great rains and appalling mud and very limited communications have delayed the final battles of Tunisia.
Sentence 39: The Axis is reinforcing its strong positions.
Sentence 40: But I am confident that though the fighting will be tough, when the final Allied assault is made, the last vestige of Axis power will be driven from the whole of the south shores of the Mediterranean.
Sentence 41: Any review of the year 1942 must emphasize the magnitude and the diversity of the military activities in which this Nation has become engaged.
Sentence 42: As I speak to you, approximately one and a half million of our soldiers, sailors, marines, and fliers are in service outside of our continental limits, all through the world.
Sentence 43: Our merchant seamen, in addition, are carrying supplies to them and to our allies over every sea lane.
Sentence 44: Few Americans realize the amazing growth of our air strength, though I am sure our enemy does.
Sentence 45: Day in and day out our forces are bombing the enemy and meeting him in combat on many different fronts in every part of the world.
Sentence 46: And for those who question the quality of our aircraft and the ability of our fliers, I point to the fact that, in Africa, we are shooting down two enemy planes to every one we lose, and in the Pacific and the Southwest Pacific we are shooting them down four to one.
Sentence 47: We pay great tribute—the tribute of the United States of America— to the fighting men of Russia and China and Britain and the various members of the British Commonwealth- the millions of men who through the years of this war have fought our common enemies, and have denied to them the world conquest which they sought.
Sentence 48: We pay tribute to the soldiers and fliers and seamen of others of the United Nations whose countries have been overrun by Axis hordes.
Sentence 49: As a result of the Allied occupation of North Africa, powerful units of the French Army and Navy are going into action.
Sentence 50: They are in action with the United Nations forces.
Sentence 51: We welcome them as allies and as friends.
Sentence 52: They join with those Frenchmen who, since the dark days of June, 1940, have been fighting valiantly for the liberation of their stricken country.
Sentence 53: We pay tribute to the fighting leaders of our allies, to Winston Churchill, to Joseph Stalin, and to the Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek.
Sentence 54: Yes, there is a very great unanimity between the leaders of the United Nations.
Sentence 55: This unity is effective in planning and carrying out the major strategy of this war and in building up and in maintaining the lines of supplies.
Sentence 56: I cannot prophesy.
Sentence 57: I cannot tell you when or where the United Nations are going to strike next in Europe.
Sentence 58: But we are going to strike- and strike hard.
Sentence 59: I cannot tell you whether we are going to hit them in Norway, or through the Low Countries, or in France, or through Sardinia or Sicily, or through the Balkans, or through Poland- or at several points simultaneously.
Sentence 60: But I can tell you that no matter where and when we strike by land, we and the British and the Russians will hit them from the air heavily and relentlessly.
Sentence 61: Day in and day out we shall heap tons upon tons of high explosives on their war factories and utilities and seaports.
Sentence 62: Hitler and Mussolini will understand now the enormity of their miscalculations—that the Nazis would always have the advantage of superior air power as they did when they bombed Warsaw, and Rotterdam, and London and Coventry.
Sentence 63: That superiority has gone—forever.
Sentence 64: Yes, the Nazis and the Fascists have asked for it—and they are going to get it.
Sentence 65: Our forward progress in this war has depended upon our progress on the production front.
Sentence 66: There has been criticism of the management and conduct of our war production.
Sentence 67: Much of this self-criticism has had a healthy effect.
Sentence 68: It has spurred us on.
Sentence 69: It has reflected a normal American impatience to get on with the job.
Sentence 70: We are the kind of people who are never quite satisfied with anything short of miracles.
Sentence 71: But there has been some criticism based on guesswork and even on malicious falsification of fact.
Sentence 72: Such criticism creates doubts and creates fears, and weakens our total effort.
Sentence 73: I do not wish to suggest that we should be completely satisfied with our production progress today, or next month, or ever.
Sentence 74: But I can report to you with genuine pride on what has been accomplished in 1942.
Sentence 75: A year ago we set certain production goals for 1942 and for 1943.
Sentence 76: Some people, including some experts, thought that we had pulled some big figures out of a hat just to frighten the Axis.
Sentence 77: But we had confidence in the ability of our people to establish new records.
Sentence 78: And that confidence has been justified.
Sentence 79: Of course, we realized that some production objectives would have to be changed- some of them adjusted upward, and others downward; some items would be taken out of the program altogether, and others added.
Sentence 80: This was inevitable as we gained battle experience, and as technological improvements were made.
Sentence 81: Our 1942 airplane production and tank production fell short, numerically—stress the word numerically of the goals set a year ago.
Sentence 82: Nevertheless, we have plenty of reason to be proud of our record for 1942.
Sentence 83: We produced 48,000 military planes—more than the airplane production of Germany, Italy, and Japan put together.
Sentence 84: Last month, in December, we produced 5,500 military planes and the rate is rapidly rising.
Sentence 85: Furthermore, we must remember that as each month passes by, the averages of our types weigh more, take more man-hours to make, and have more striking power.
Sentence 86: In tank production, we revised our schedule- and for good and sufficient reasons.
Sentence 87: As a result of hard experience in battle, we have diverted a portion of our tank-producing capacity to a stepped-up production of new, deadly field weapons, especially self-propelled artillery.
Sentence 88: Here are some other production figures:
Sentence 89: In 1942, we produced 56,000 combat vehicles, such as tanks and self-propelled artillery.
Sentence 90: In 1942, we produced 670,000 machine guns, six times greater than our production in 1941 and three times greater than our total production during the year and a half of our participation in the first World War.
Sentence 91: We produced 21,000 anti-tank guns, six times greater than our 1941 production.
Sentence 92: We produced ten and a quarter billion rounds of small-arms ammunition, five times greater than our 1941 production and three times greater than our total production in the first World War.
Sentence 93: We produced 181 million rounds of artillery ammunition, twelve times greater than our 1941 production and ten times greater than our total production in the first World War.
Sentence 94: I think the arsenal of democracy is making good.
Sentence 95: These facts and figures that I have given will give no great aid and comfort to the enemy.
Sentence 96: On the contrary, I can imagine that they will give him considerable discomfort.
Sentence 97: I suspect that Hitler and Tojo will find it difficult to explain to the German and Japanese people just why it is that "decadent, inefficient democracy" can produce such phenomenal quantities of weapons and munitions- and fighting men.
Sentence 98: We have given the lie to certain misconceptions—which is an extremely polite word- especially the one which holds that the various blocs or groups within a free country cannot forego their political and economic differences in time of crisis and work together toward a common goal.
Sentence 99: While we have been achieving this miracle of production, during the past year our armed forces have grown from a little over 2,000,000 to 7,000,000.
Sentence 100: In other words, we have withdrawn from the labor force and the farms some 5,000,000 of our younger workers.
Sentence 101: And in spite of this, our farmers have contributed their share to the common effort by producing the greatest quantity of food ever made available during a single year in all our history.
Sentence 102: I wonder is there any person among us so simple as to believe that all this could have been done without creating some dislocations in our normal national life, some inconveniences, and even some hardships?
Sentence 103: Who can have hoped to have done this without burdensome Government regulations which are a nuisance to everyone- including those who have the thankless task of administering them?
Sentence 104: We all know that there have been mistakes- mistakes due to the inevitable process of trial and error inherent in doing big things for the first time.
Sentence 105: We all know that there have been too many complicated forms and questionnaires.
Sentence 106: I know about that.
Sentence 107: I have had to fill some of them out myself.
Sentence 108: But we are determined to see to it that our supplies of food and other essential civilian goods are distributed on a fair and just basis—to rich and poor, management and labor, farmer and city dweller alike.
Sentence 109: We are determined to keep the cost of living at a stable level.
Sentence 110: All this has required much information.
Sentence 111: These forms and questionnaires represent an honest and sincere attempt by honest and sincere officials to obtain this information.
Sentence 112: We have learned by the mistakes that we have made.
Sentence 113: Our experience will enable us during the coming year to improve the necessary mechanisms of wartime economic controls, and to simplify administrative procedures.
Sentence 114: But we do not intend to leave things so lax that loopholes will be left for cheaters, for chiselers, or for the manipulators of the black market.
Sentence 115: Of course, there have been disturbances and inconveniences -and even hardships.
Sentence 116: And there will be many, many more before we finally win.
Sentence 117: Yes, 1943 will not be an easy year for us on the home front.
Sentence 118: We shall feel in many ways in our daily lives the sharp pinch of total war.
Sentence 119: Fortunately, there are only a few Americans who place appetite above patriotism.
Sentence 120: The overwhelming majority realize that the food we send abroad is for essential military purposes, for our own and Allied fighting forces, and for necessary help in areas that we occupy.
Sentence 121: We Americans intend to do this great job together.
Sentence 122: In our common labors we must build and fortify the very foundation of national unity- confidence in one another.
Sentence 123: It is often amusing, and it is sometimes politically profitable, to picture the City of Washington as a madhouse, with the Congress and the Administration disrupted with confusion and indecision and general incompetence.
Sentence 124: However—what matters most in war is results.
Sentence 125: And the one pertinent fact is that after only a few years of preparation and only one year of warfare, we are able to engage, spiritually as well as physically, in the total waging of a total war.
Sentence 126: Washington may be a madhouse- but only in the sense that it is the Capital City of a Nation which is fighting mad.
Sentence 127: And I think that Berlin and Rome and Tokyo, which had such contempt for the obsolete methods of democracy, would now gladly use all they could get of that same brand of madness.
Sentence 128: And we must not forget that our achievements in production have been relatively no greater than those of the Russians and the British and the Chinese who have developed their own war industries under the incredible difficulties of battle conditions.
Sentence 129: They have had to continue work through bombings and blackouts.
Sentence 130: And they have never quit.
Sentence 131: We Americans are in good, brave company in this war, and we are playing our own, honorable part in the vast common effort.
Sentence 132: As spokesmen for the United States Government, you and I take off our hats to those responsible for our American production—to the owners, managers, and supervisors, to the draftsmen and the engineers, and to the workers- men and women—in factories and arsenals and shipyards and mines and mills and forests—and railroads and on highways.
Sentence 133: We take off our hats to the farmers who have faced an unprecedented task of feeding not only a great Nation but a great part of the world.
Sentence 134: We take off our hats to all the loyal, anonymous, untiring men and women who have worked in private employment and in Government and who have endured rationing and other stringencies with good humor and good will.
Sentence 135: Yes, we take off our hats to all Americans who have contributed so magnificently to our common cause.
Sentence 136: I have sought to emphasize a sense of proportion in this review of the events of the war and the needs of the war.
Sentence 137: We should never forget the things we are fighting for.
Sentence 138: But, at this critical period of the war, we should confine ourselves to the larger objectives and not get bogged down in argument over methods and details.
Sentence 139: We, and all the United Nations, want a decent peace and a durable peace.
Sentence 140: In the years between the end of the first World War and the beginning of the second World War, we were not living under a decent or a durable peace.
Sentence 141: I have reason to know that our boys at the front are concerned with two broad aims beyond the winning of the war; and their thinking and their opinion coincide with what most Americans here back home are mulling over.
Sentence 142: They know, and we know, that it would be inconceivable—it would, indeed, be sacrilegious —if this Nation and the world did not attain some real, lasting good out of all these efforts and sufferings and bloodshed and death.
Sentence 143: The men in our armed forces want a lasting peace, and, equally, they want permanent employment for themselves, their families, and their neighbors when they are mustered out at the end of the war.
Sentence 144: Two years ago I spoke in my Annual Message of four freedoms.
Sentence 145: The blessings of two of them- freedom of speech and freedom of religion—are an essential part of the very life of this Nation; and we hope that these blessings will be granted to all men everywhere.
Sentence 146: 'The people at home, and the people at the front, are wondering a little about the third freedom—freedom from want.
Sentence 147: To them it means that when they are mustered out, when war production is converted to the economy of peace, they will have the right to expect full employment—full employment for themselves and for all able-bodied men and women in America who want to work.
Sentence 148: They expect the opportunity to work, to run their farms, their stores, to earn decent wages.
Sentence 149: They are eager to face the risks inherent in our system of free enterprise.
Sentence 150: They do not want a postwar America which suffers from undernourishment or slums- or the dole.
Sentence 151: They want no get-rich-quick era of bogus "prosperity" which will end for them in selling apples on a street corner, as happened after the bursting of the boom in 1929.
Sentence 152: When you talk with our young men and our young women, you will find they want to work for themselves and for their families; they consider that they have the right to work; and they know that after the last war their fathers did not gain that right.
Sentence 153: When you talk with our young men and women, you will find that with the opportunity for employment they want assurance against the evils of all major economic hazards- assurance that will extend from the cradle to the grave.
Sentence 154: And this great Government can and must provide this assurance.
Sentence 155: I have been told that this is no time to speak of a better America after the war.
Sentence 156: I am told it is a grave error on my part.
Sentence 157: I dissent.
Sentence 158: And if the security of the individual citizen, or the family, should become a subject of national debate, the country knows where I stand.
Sentence 159: I say this now to this Seventy-eighth Congress, because it is wholly possible that freedom from want—the right of employment, the right of assurance against life's hazards—will loom very large as a task of America during the coming two years.
Sentence 160: I trust it will not be regarded as an issue—but rather as a task for all of us to study sympathetically, to work out with a constant regard for the attainment of the objective, with fairness to all and with injustice to none.
Sentence 161: In this war of survival we must keep before our minds not only the evil things we fight against but the good things we are fighting for.
Sentence 162: We fight to retain a great past- and we fight to gain a greater future.
Sentence 163: Let us remember, too, that economic safety for the America of the future is threatened unless a greater economic stability comes to the rest of the world.
Sentence 164: We cannot make America an island in either a military or an economic sense.
Sentence 165: Hitlerism, like any other form of crime or disease, can grow from the evil seeds of economic as well as military feudalism.
Sentence 166: Victory in this war is the first and greatest goal before us.
Sentence 167: Victory in the peace is the next.
Sentence 168: That means striving toward the enlargement of the security of man here and throughout the world —and, finally, striving for the fourth freedom- freedom from fear.
Sentence 169: It is of little account for any of us to talk of essential human needs, of attaining security, if we run the risk of another World War in ten or twenty or fifty years.
Sentence 170: That is just plain common sense.
Sentence 171: Wars grow in size, in death and destruction, and in the inevitability of engulfing all Nations, in inverse ratio to the shrinking size of the world as a result of the conquest of the air.
Sentence 172: I shudder to think of what will happen to humanity, including ourselves, if this war ends in an inconclusive peace, and another war breaks out when the babies of today have grown to fighting age.
Sentence 173: Every normal American prays that neither he nor his sons nor his grandsons will be compelled to go through this horror again.
Sentence 174: Undoubtedly a few Americans, even now, think that this Nation can end this war comfortably and then climb back into an American hole and pull the hole in after them.
Sentence 175: But we have learned that we can never dig a hole so deep that it would be safe against predatory animals.
Sentence 176: We have also learned that if we do not pull the fangs of the predatory animals of this world, they will multiply and grow in strength- and they will be at our throats again once more in a short generation.
Sentence 177: Most Americans realize more clearly than ever before that modern war equipment in the hands of aggressor Nations can bring danger overnight to our own national existence or to that of any other Nation—or island—or continent.
Sentence 178: It is clear to us that if Germany and Italy and Japan- or any one of them- remain armed at the end of this war, or are permitted to rearm, they will again, and inevitably, embark upon an ambitious career of world conquest.
Sentence 179: They must be disarmed and kept disarmed, and they must abandon the philosophy, and the teaching of that philosophy, which has brought so much suffering to the world.
Sentence 180: After the first World War we tried to achieve a formula for permanent peace, based on a magnificent idealism.
Sentence 181: We failed.
Sentence 182: But, by our failure, we have learned that we cannot maintain peace at this stage of human development by good intentions alone.
Sentence 183: Today the United Nations are the mightiest military coalition in all history.
Sentence 184: They represent an overwhelming majority of the population of the world.
Sentence 185: Bound together in solemn agreement that they themselves will not commit acts of aggression or conquest against any of their neighbors, the United Nations can and must remain united for the maintenance of peace by preventing any attempt to rearm in Germany, in Japan, in Italy, or in any other Nation which seeks to violate the Tenth Commandment -"Thou shalt not covet.
Sentence 186: "
There are cynics, there are skeptics who say it cannot be done.
Sentence 187: The American people and all the freedom-loving peoples of this earth are now demanding that it must be done.
Sentence 188: And the will of these people shall prevail.
Sentence 189: The very philosophy of the Axis powers is based on a profound contempt for the human race.
Sentence 190: If, in the formation of our future policy, we were guided by the same cynical contempt, then we should be surrendering to the philosophy of our enemies, and our victory would turn to defeat.
Sentence 191: The issue of this war is the basic issue between those who believe in mankind and those who do not—the ancient issue between those who put their faith in the people and those who put their faith in dictators and tyrants.
Sentence 192: There have always been those who did not believe in the people, who attempted to block their forward movement across history, to force them back to servility and suffering and silence.
Sentence 193: The people have now gathered their strength.
Sentence 194: They are moving forward in their might and power—and no force, no combination of forces, no trickery, deceit, or violence, can stop them now.
Sentence 195: They see before them the hope of the world- a decent, secure, peaceful life for men everywhere.
Sentence 196: I do not prophesy when this war will end.
Sentence 197: But I do believe that this year of 1943 will give to the United Nations a very substantial advance along the roads that lead to Berlin and Rome and Tokyo.
Sentence 198: I tell you it is within the realm of possibility that this Seventy-eight Congress may have the historic privilege of helping greatly to save the world from future fear.
Sentence 199: Therefore, let us all have confidence, let us redouble our efforts.
Sentence 200: A tremendous, costly, long-enduring task in peace as well as in war is still ahead of us.
Sentence 201: But, as we face that continuing task, we may know that the state of this Nation is good—the heart of this Nation is sound -the spirit of this Nation is strong—the faith of this Nation is eternal.
