Sentence 1: 1943 Remarks The Warm Springs Foundation

I don't have to tell the Warm Springs family how very happy I am to be back with you again.
Sentence 2: I have really stolen these few moments-just twenty-four hours.
Sentence 3: I am not here.
Sentence 4: You may read about it in another week.
Sentence 5: In other words, I am perpetrating what the newspapers call a "scoop" for your benefit—seven or eight days ahead of time.
Sentence 6: I am awfully happy in the knowledge, in the White House, that all goes well in Warm Springs.
Sentence 7: I haven't got much time, as you may realize; and I was thinking today, as we motored from Fort Benning, that the last time I was here was on the thirtieth of November, 1941.
Sentence 8: At that time, because of certain things that happened in Washington and Tokyo, I had failed to arrive on Thanksgiving Day.
Sentence 9: I came a week later, and we had a family party in this room.
Sentence 10: The next morning, one of those psychological things happened-what you and I would call a hunch.
Sentence 11: I telephoned to Washington to the Secretary of State, and I said to him, "You know, I am worried.
Sentence 12: I don't know why I am worried, but I am too far away from Washington."
Sentence 13: And he said, "I know just how you feel, because I am worried too.
Sentence 14: There has been no news in the past twenty-four hours to cause additional worry, but I am just worried and I wish you were here in Washington."
Sentence 15: And so the next day I left here and went back.
Sentence 16: And when I got him on the phone, I said, "You know, I think we are all rather silly, but I had a feeling that something is hanging over our heads."
Sentence 17: And just one week later came the unwarranted surprise attack on Pearl Harbor.
Sentence 18: Well, things have gone a lot better since then.
Sentence 19: And one thing I think we can make a pretty good guess about, and that is that here at Warm Springs we are going to have, in the days to come, a great many more men in uniform.
Sentence 20: After all, infantile paralysis is not a respecter of age; and in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard, including the WAACs, WAVES, and the other girls, we are going to have, out of more than seven million Americans, a good many cases of infantile paralysis, even if we don't have any great epidemic in this country.
Sentence 21: And Warm Springs is preparing to do all it can to undertake to care for our boys in uniform, and our girls in uniform, even if we have to take half a hundred more patients than we think we have room for.
Sentence 22: And in doing that, we must always remember that we still have a duty to the civilian population of the country; because after all, the work we are taking part in-
Sentence 23: doctors, 'patients, physiotherapists, management, and everyone else- is creating a very profound effect, not just here but all over the United States.
Sentence 24: We are doing pioneering work, and other people who haven't got the same advantages we have here are in large measure copying what we are doing in all the different localities, in counties and States all through the country.
Sentence 25: That means a very definite effect on the health and well-being of all the people throughout the Nation- grown-ups, boys and girls.
Sentence 26: And that is why I said in the White House I am very happy to know this constructive work is keeping on going at Warm Springs.
Sentence 27: I don't need to tell you that it makes my heart glad.
Sentence 28: I can be here only for dinner.
Sentence 29: I have to leave for other parts —training stations, camps, and everything else, just to keep in touch with the great war effort that this whole Nation is engaged in.
Sentence 30: I hope I can come back in the autumn, but that is no promise.
Sentence 31: I am not the master of my own calendar.
Sentence 32: So, I do hope to see you this autumn, and it doesn't make much difference whether it is Thanksgiving Day or not, as I find I can come here in April and still have turkey and cranberry sauce.
Sentence 33: So I do hope to see you all very soon.
Sentence 34: And may I suggest we carry out the old tradition.
Sentence 35: I am going over by the door and stand, and meet all of you boys and girls who have come here since I was here last, and all of you other boys and girls- and that will do my heart good, too.
