Sentence 1: 1943 Radio Address Washingtons Birthday

Today this Nation, which George Washington helped so greatly to create, is fighting all over this earth in order to maintain for ourselves and for our children the freedom which George Washington helped so greatly to achieve.
Sentence 2: As we celebrate his birthday, let us remember how he conducted himself in the midst of great adversities.
Sentence 3: We are inclined, because of the total sum of his accomplishments, to forget his days of trial.
Sentence 4: Throughout the Revolution, Washington commanded an army whose very existence as an army was never a certainty from one week to another.
Sentence 5: Some of his soldiers, and even whole regiments, could not or would not move outside the borders of their own States.
Sentence 6: Sometimes, at critical moments, they would decide to re. turn to their individual homes to get the plowing done, or the crops harvested.
Sentence 7: Large numbers of the people of the colonies were either against independence or at least unwilling to make great personal sacrifice toward its attainment.
Sentence 8: And there were many in every colony who were willing to cooperate with Washington only if the cooperation were based on their own terms.
Sentence 9: Some Americans during the War of the Revolution sneered at the very principles of the Declaration of Independence.
Sentence 10: It was impractical, they said- it was "idealistic"—to claim that "all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable Rights.
Sentence 11: "
The skeptics and the cynics of Washington's day did not believe that ordinary men and women have the capacity for freedom and self-government.
Sentence 12: They said that liberty and equality were idle dreams that could not come true—just as today there are many Americans who sneer at the determination to attain freedom from want and freedom from fear, on the ground that these are ideals which can never be realized.
Sentence 13: They say it is ordained that we must always have poverty, and that we must always have war.
Sentence 14: You know; they are like the people who carp at the Ten Commandments because some people are in the habit of breaking one or more of them.
Sentence 15: We Americans of today know that there would have been no successful outcome to the Revolution, even after eight long years—the Revolution that gave us liberty—had it not been for George Washington's faith, and the fact that that faith overcame the bickerings and confusion and the doubts which the skeptics and cynics provoked.
Sentence 16: When kind history books tell us of Benedict Arnold, they omit dozens of other Americans who, beyond peradventure of a doubt, were also guilty of treason.
Sentence 17: We know that it was Washington's simple, steadfast faith that kept him to the essential principles of first things first.
Sentence 18: His sturdy sense of proportion brought to him and his followers the ability to discount the smaller difficulties and concentrate on the larger objectives.
Sentence 19: And the objectives of the American Revolution were so large—so unlimited—that today they are among the primary objectives of the entire civilized world.
Sentence 20: It was Washington's faith—and, with it, his hope and his charity- which was responsible for the stamina of Valley Forge—and responsible for the prayer at Valley Forge.
Sentence 21: The Americans of Washington's day were at war.
Sentence 22: We Americans of today are at war.
Sentence 23: The Americans of Washington's day faced defeat on many occasions.
Sentence 24: We faced, and still face, reverses and misfortunes.
Sentence 25: In 1777, the victory over General Burgoyne's army at Saratoga led thousands of Americans to throw their hats in the air, proclaiming that the war was practically won and that they should go back to their peacetime occupations—and, shall I say, their peacetime "normalcies."
Sentence 26: Today, the great successes on the Russian front have led thousands of Americans to throw their hats in the air and proclaim that victory is just around the corner.
Sentence 27: Others among us still believe in the age of miracles.
Sentence 28: They forget that there is no Joshua in our midst.
Sentence 29: We cannot count on great walls crumbling and falling down when the trumpets blow and the people shout.
Sentence 30: It is not enough that we have faith and that we have hope.
Sentence 31: Washington himself was the exemplification of the other great need.
Sentence 32: Would that all of us could live our lives and direct our thoughts and control our tongues as did the Father of our Country in seeking day by day to follow those great verses:
Sentence 33: "Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up,
"Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil:
"Rejoiceth not in iniquity but rejoiceth in the truth."
Sentence 34: I think that most of us Americans seek to live up to those precepts.
Sentence 35: But there are some among us who have forgotten them.
Sentence 36: There are Americans whose words and writings are trumpeted by our enemies to persuade the disintegrating people of Germany and Italy and their captives that America is disunited-that America will be guilty of faithlessness in this war, and will thus enable the Axis powers to control the earth.
Sentence 37: It is perhaps fitting that on this day I should read a few more words spoken many years ago—words which helped to shape the character and the career of George Washington, words that lay behind the prayer at Valley Forge.
Sentence 38: "Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Sentence 39: "Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.
Sentence 40: "Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.
Sentence 41: "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled.
Sentence 42: "Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.
Sentence 43: "Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.
Sentence 44: "Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.
Sentence 45: "Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Sentence 46: "Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake.
Sentence 47: "Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you.
Sentence 48: "
Those are the truths which are the eternal heritage of our civilization.
Sentence 49: I repeat them, to give heart and comfort to all men and women everywhere who fight for freedom.
Sentence 50: Those truths inspired Washington, and the men and women of the thirteen colonies.
Sentence 51: Today, through all the darkness that has descended upon our Nation and our world, those truths are a guiding light to all.
Sentence 52: We shall follow that light, as our forefathers did, to the fulfillment of our hopes for victory, for freedom, and for peace.
