Sentence 1: 1943 Fireside Chat 0

I am speaking tonight to the American people, and in particular to those of our citizens who are coal miners.
Sentence 2: Tonight this country faces a serious crisis.
Sentence 3: We are engaged in a war on the successful outcome of which will depend the whole future of our country.
Sentence 4: This war has reached a new critical phase.
Sentence 5: After the years that we have spent in preparation, we have moved into active and continuing battle with our enemies.
Sentence 6: We are pouring into the world-wide conflict everything that we have- our young men, and the vast resources of our Nation.
Sentence 7: I have just returned from a two weeks' tour of inspection on which I saw our men being trained and our war materials made.
Sentence 8: My trip took me through twenty States.
Sentence 9: I saw thousands of workers on the production line, making airplanes, and guns and ammunition.
Sentence 10: Everywhere I found great eagerness to get on with the war.
Sentence 11: Men and women are working long hours at difficult jobs and living under difficult conditions without complaint.
Sentence 12: Along thousands of miles of track I saw countless acres of newly plowed fields.
Sentence 13: The farmers of this country are planting the crops that are needed to feed our armed forces, our civilian population, and our allies.
Sentence 14: Those crops will be harvested.
Sentence 15: On my trip, I saw hundreds of thousands of soldiers.
Sentence 16: Young men who were green recruits last autumn have matured into self-assured and hardened fighting men.
Sentence 17: They are in splendid physical condition.
Sentence 18: They are mastering the superior weapons that we are pouring out of our factories.
Sentence 19: The American people have accomplished a miracle.
Sentence 20: However, all of our massed effort is none too great to meet the demands of this war.
Sentence 21: We shall need everything that we have and everything that our allies have—to defeat the Nazis and the Fascists in the coming battles on the continent of Europe, and the Japanese on the continent of Asia and in the islands of the Pacific.
Sentence 22: This tremendous forward movement of the United States and the United Nations cannot be stopped by our enemies.
Sentence 23: And equally, it must not be hampered by any one individual or by the leaders of any one group here back home.
Sentence 24: I want to make it clear that every American coal miner who has stopped mining coal—no matter how sincere his motives, no matter how legitimate he may believe his grievances to be every idle miner directly and individually is obstructing our war effort.
Sentence 25: We have not yet won this war.
Sentence 26: We will win this war only as we produce and deliver our total American effort on the high seas and on the battle fronts.
Sentence 27: And that requires unrelenting, uninterrupted effort here on the home front.
Sentence 28: A stopping of the coal supply, even for a short time, would involve a gamble with the lives of American soldiers and sailors and the future security of our whole people.
Sentence 29: It would involve an unwarranted, unnecessary, and terribly dangerous gamble with our chances for victory.
Sentence 30: Therefore, I say to all miners—and to all Americans everywhere, at home and abroad—the production of coal will not be stopped.
Sentence 31: Tonight, I am speaking to the essential patriotism of the miners, and to the patriotism of their wives and children.
Sentence 32: And I am going to state the true facts of this case as simply and as plainly as I know how.
Sentence 33: After the attack at Pearl Harbor, the three great labor organizations—the American Federation of Labor, the Congress of Industrial Organizations, and the Railroad Brotherhoods- gave the positive assurance that there would be no strikes as long as the war lasted.
Sentence 34: And the President of the United Mine Workers of America was a party to that assurance.
Sentence 35: That pledge was applauded throughout the country.
Sentence 36: It was a forcible means of telling the world that we Americans—135,000,000 of us—are united in our determination to fight this total war with our total will and our total power.
Sentence 37: At the request of employers and of organized labor—including the United Mine Workers—the War Labor Board was set up for settling any disputes which could not be adjusted through collective bargaining.
Sentence 38: The War Labor Board is a tribunal on which workers, employers, and the general public are equally represented.
Sentence 39: In the present coal crisis, conciliation and mediation were tried unsuccessfully.
Sentence 40: In accordance with the law, the case was then certified to the War Labor Board, the agency created for this express purpose with the approval of organized labor.
Sentence 41: The members of the Board followed the usual practice which has proved successful in other disputes.
Sentence 42: Acting promptly, they undertook to get all the facts of this case from both the miners and the operators.
Sentence 43: The national officers of the United Mine Workers, however, declined to have anything to do with the fact finding of the War Labor Board.
Sentence 44: The only excuse that they offer is that the War Labor Board is prejudiced.
Sentence 45: The War Labor Board has been and is ready to give this case a fair and impartial hearing.
Sentence 46: I have given my assurance that if any adjustment of wages is made by the Board, it will be made retroactive to April first.
Sentence 47: But the national officers of the United Mine Workers refused to participate in the hearing, when asked to do so last Monday.
Sentence 48: On Wednesday of this past week, while the Board was proceeding with the case, stoppages began to occur in some mines.
Sentence 49: On Thursday morning I telegraphed to the officers of the United Mine Workers asking that the miners continue mining coal on Saturday morning.
Sentence 50: However, a general strike throughout the industry became effective on Friday night.
Sentence 51: The responsibility for the crisis that we now face rests squarely on these national officers of the United Mine Workers, and not on the Government of the United States.
Sentence 52: But the consequences of this arbitrary action threaten all of us everywhere.
Sentence 53: At ten o'clock yesterday morning the Government took over the mines.
Sentence 54: I called upon the miners to return to work for their Government.
Sentence 55: The Government needs their services just as surely as it needs the services of our soldiers, and sailors, and marines
Sentence 56: -and the services of the millions who are turning out the munitions of war.
Sentence 57: You miners have sons in the Army and Navy and Marine Corps.
Sentence 58: You have sons who at this very minute—this split second—may be fighting in New Guinea, or in the Aleutian Islands, or Guadalcanal, or Tunisia, or China, or protecting troop ships and supplies against submarines on the high seas.
Sentence 59: We have already received telegrams from some of our fighting men overseas, and I only wish they could tell you what they think of the stoppage of work in the coal mines.
Sentence 60: Some of your own sons have come back from the fighting fronts, wounded.
Sentence 61: A number of them, for example, are now here in an Army hospital in Washington.
Sentence 62: Several of them have been decorated by their Government.
Sentence 63: I could tell you of one from Pennsylvania.
Sentence 64: He was a coal miner before his induction, and his father is a coal miner.
Sentence 65: He was seriously wounded by Nazi machine-gun bullets while he was on a bombing mission over Europe in a Flying Fortress.
Sentence 66: Another boy, from Kentucky, the son of a coal miner, was Wounded when our troops first landed in North Africa six months ago.
Sentence 67: There is still another, from Illinois.
Sentence 68: He was a coal miner-his father and two brothers are coal miners.
Sentence 69: He was seriously Wounded in Tunisia while attempting to rescue two comrades whose jeep had been blown up by a Nazi mine.
Sentence 70: These men do not consider themselves heroes.
Sentence 71: They would probably be embarrassed if I mentioned their names over the air.
Sentence 72: They were wounded in the line of duty.
Sentence 73: They know how essential it is to the tens of thousands- hundreds of thousands and ultimately millions of other young Americans to get the best of arms and equipment into the hands of our fighting forces and get them there quickly.
Sentence 74: The fathers and mothers of our fighting men, their brothers and sisters and friends—and that includes all of us—are also in the line of duty—the production line.
Sentence 75: Any failure in production may well result in costly defeat on the field of battle.
Sentence 76: There can be no one among us-
Sentence 77: no one faction—powerful enough to interrupt the forward march of our people to victory.
Sentence 78: You miners have ample reason to know that there are certain basic rights for which this country stands, and that those rights are worth fighting for and worth dying for.
Sentence 79: That is why you have sent your sons and brothers from every mining town in the Nation to join in the great struggle overseas.
Sentence 80: That is why you have contributed so generously, so willingly, to the purchase of war bonds and to the many funds for the relief of war victims in foreign lands.
Sentence 81: That is why, since this war was started in 1939, you have increased the annual production of coal by almost two hundred million tons a year.
Sentence 82: The toughness of your sons in our armed forces is not surprising.
Sentence 83: They come of fine, rugged stock.
Sentence 84: Men who work in the mines are not unaccustomed to hardship.
Sentence 85: It has been the objective of this Government to reduce that hardship, to obtain for miners and for all who do the Nation's work a better standard of living.
Sentence 86: I know only too well that the cost of living is troubling the miners' families, and troubling the families of millions of other workers throughout the country as well.
Sentence 87: A year ago it became evident to all of us that something had to be done about living costs.
Sentence 88: Your Government determined not to let the cost of living continue to go up as it did in the first World War.
Sentence 89: Your Government has been determined to maintain stability of both prices and wages-
Sentence 90: so that a dollar would buy, so far as possible, the same amount of the necessities of life.
Sentence 91: And by necessities I mean just that—not the luxuries, not the fancy goods that we have learned to do without in wartime.
Sentence 92: So far, we have not been able to keep the prices of some necessities as low as we should have liked to keep them.
Sentence 93: That is true not only in coal towns but in many other places.
Sentence 94: Wherever we find that prices of essentials have risen too high, they will be brought down.
Sentence 95: Wherever we find that price ceilings are being violated, the violators will be punished.
Sentence 96: Rents have been fixed in most parts of the country.
Sentence 97: In many cities they have been cut to below where they were before we entered the war.
Sentence 98: Clothing prices have generally remained stable.
Sentence 99: These two items make up more than a third of the total budget of the worker's family.
Sentence 100: As for food, which today accounts for about another third of the family expenditure on the average, I want to repeat again: your government will continue to take all necessary measures to eliminate unjustified and avoidable price increases.
Sentence 101: And we are today taking measures to "roll back" the prices of meats.
Sentence 102: The war is going to go on.
Sentence 103: Coal will be mined no matter what any individual thinks about it.
Sentence 104: The operation of our factories, our power plants, our railroads will not be stopped.
Sentence 105: Our munitions must move to our troops.
Sentence 106: And so, under these circumstances, it is inconceivable that any patriotic miner can choose any course other than going back to work and mining coal.
Sentence 107: The Nation cannot afford violence of any kind at the coal mines or in coal towns.
Sentence 108: I have placed authority for the resumption of coal mining in the hands of a civilian, the Secretary of the Interior.
Sentence 109: If it becomes necessary to protect any miner who seeks patriotically to go back and work, then that miner must have and his family must have—and will have—complete and adequate protection.
Sentence 110: If it becomes necessary to have troops at the mine mouths or in coal towns for the protection of working miners and their families, those troops will be doing police duty for the sake of the Nation as a whole, and particularly for the sake of the fighting men in the Army, the Navy, and the Marines—your sons and mine- who are fighting our common enemies all over the world.
Sentence 111: I understand the devotion of the coal miners to their union.
Sentence 112: I know of the sacrifices they have made to build it up.
Sentence 113: I believe now, as I have all my life, in the right of workers to join unions and to protect their unions.
Sentence 114: I want to make it absolutely clear that this Government is not going to do anything now to weaken those rights in the coal fields.
Sentence 115: Every improvement in the conditions of the coal miners of this country has had my hearty support, and I do not mean to desert them now.
Sentence 116: But I also do not mean to desert my obligations and responsibilities as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy.
Sentence 117: The first necessity is the resumption of coal mining.
Sentence 118: The terms of the old contract will be followed by the Secretary of the Interior.
Sentence 119: If an adjustment in wages results from a decision of the War Labor Board, or from any new agreement between the operators and miners, which is approved by the War Labor Board, that adjustment will be made retroactive to April first.
Sentence 120: In the message that I delivered to the Congress four months ago, I expressed my conviction that the spirit of this Nation is good.
Sentence 121: Since then, I have seen our troops in the Caribbean area, in bases on the coasts of our ally, Brazil, and in North Africa.
Sentence 122: Recently I have again seen great numbers of our fellow countrymen—soldiers and civilians—from the Atlantic seaboard to the Mexican border and to the Rocky Mountains.
Sentence 123: Tonight, in the face of a crisis of serious proportions in the coal industry, I say again that the spirit of this Nation is good.
Sentence 124: I know that the American people will not tolerate any threat offered to their Government by anyone.
Sentence 125: I believe the coal miners will not continue the strike against their Government.
Sentence 126: I believe that the coal miners as Americans will not fail to heed the clear call to duty.
Sentence 127: Like all other good Americans, they will march shoulder to shoulder with their armed forces to victory.
Sentence 128: Tomorrow the Stars and Stripes will fly over the coal mines, and I hope that every miner will be at work under that flag.
