Sentence 1: 1943 Fireside Chat 8

My fellow Americans:
Sentence 2: Once upon a time, a few years ago, there was a city in our Middle West which was threatened by a destructive flood in the great river.
Sentence 3: The waters had risen to the top of the banks.
Sentence 4: Every man, woman, and child in that city was called upon to fill sandbags in order to defend their homes against the rising waters.
Sentence 5: For many days and nights, destruction and death stared them in the face.
Sentence 6: As a result of the grim, determined community effort, that city still stands.
Sentence 7: Those people kept the levees above the peak of the flood.
Sentence 8: All of them joined together in the desperate job that had to be done—businessmen, workers, farmers, doctors preachers—people of all races.
Sentence 9: To me, that town is a living symbol of what community cooperation can accomplish.
Sentence 10: Today, in the same kind of community effort, only very much larger, the United Nations and their peoples have kept the levees of civilization high enough to prevent the floods of aggression and barbarism and wholesale murder from engulfing us all.
Sentence 11: The flood has been raging for four years.
Sentence 12: At last we are beginning to gain on it; but the waters have not yet receded enough for us to relax our sweating work with the sandbags.
Sentence 13: In this war bond campaign we are filling bags and placing them against the flood—bags which are essential if we are to stand off the ugly torrent which is trying to sweep us all away.
Sentence 14: Today, it is announced that an armistice with Italy has been concluded.
Sentence 15: This was a great victory for the United Nations-
Sentence 16: but it was also a great victory for the Italian people.
Sentence 17: After years of war and suffering and degradation, the Italian people are at last coming to the day of liberation from their real enemies, the Nazis.
Sentence 18: But let us not delude ourselves that this armistice means the end of the war in the Mediterranean.
Sentence 19: We still have to drive the Germans out of Italy as we have driven them out of Tunisia and Sicily; we must drive them out of France and all other captive countries; and we must strike them on their own soil from all directions.
Sentence 20: Our ultimate objectives in this war continue to be Berlin and Tokyo.
Sentence 21: I ask you to bear these objectives constantly in mind—and do not forget that we still have a long way to go before we attain them.
Sentence 22: The great news that you have heard today from General Eisenhower does not give you license to settle back in your rocking chairs.
Sentence 23: and say, "Well, that does it.
Sentence 24: We've got 'era on the run.
Sentence 25: Now we can start the celebration.
Sentence 26: "
Sentence 27: The time for celebration is not yet.
Sentence 28: And I have a suspicion that when this war does end, we shall not be in a very celebrating frame of mind.
Sentence 29: I think that our main emotion will be one of grim determination that this shall not happen again.
Sentence 30: During the past weeks, Mr. Churchill and I have been in constant conference with the leaders of our combined fighting forces.
Sentence 31: We have been in constant communication with our fighting allies, Russian and Chinese, who are prosecuting the war with relentless determination and with conspicuous success on far distant fronts.
Sentence 32: And Mr. Churchill and I are here together in Washington at this crucial moment.
Sentence 33: We have seen the satisfactory fulfillment of plans that were made in Casablanca last January and here in Washington last May.
Sentence 34: And lately we have made new, extensive plans for the future.
Sentence 35: But throughout these conferences we have never lost sight of the fact that this war will become bigger and tougher, rather than easier, during the long months that are to come.
Sentence 36: This war does not and must not stop for one single instant.
Sentence 37: Your fighting men know that.
Sentence 38: Those of them who are moving forward through jungles against lurking Japs—those who are landing at this moment, in barges moving through the dawn up to strange enemy coasts—those who are diving their bombers down on the targets at roof-top level—every one of these men knows that this war is a full-time job and that it will continue to be that until total victory is won.
Sentence 39: And, by the same token, every responsible leader in all the United Nations knows that the fighting goes on twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, and that any day lost may have to be paid for in terms of months added to the duration of the war.
Sentence 40: Every campaign, every single operation in all the campaigns that we plan and carry through must be figured in terms of staggering material costs.
Sentence 41: We cannot afford to be niggardly with any of our resources, for we shall need all of them to do the job that we have put our shoulder to.
Sentence 42: Your fellow Americans have given a magnificent account of themselves—on the battlefields and on the oceans and in the skies all over the world.
Sentence 43: Now it is up to you to prove to them that you are contributing your share and more than your share.
Sentence 44: It is not sufficient simply to put into war bonds money which we would normally save.
Sentence 45: We must put into war bonds money which we would not normally save.
Sentence 46: Only then have we done everything that good conscience demands.
Sentence 47: So it is up to you, the Americans in the American homes—the very homes which our sons and daughters are working and fighting and dying to preserve.
Sentence 48: I know I speak for every man and woman throughout the Americas when I say that we Americans will not be satisfied to send our troops into the fire of the enemy with equipment inferior in any way.
Sentence 49: Nor will we be satisfied to send our troops with equipment only equal to that of the enemy.
Sentence 50: We are determined to provide our troops with overpowering superiority, superiority of quantity and quality in any and every category of arms and armaments that they may conceivably need.
Sentence 51: And where does our dominating power come from?
Sentence 52: Why, it can come only from you.
Sentence 53: The money you lend and the money you give in taxes buys that death-dealing, and at the same time life-saving power that we need for victory.
Sentence 54: This is an expensive war—expensive in money; you can help keep it at a minimum cost in lives.
Sentence 55: The American people will never stop to reckon the cost of redeeming civilization.
Sentence 56: They know there never can be any economic justification for failing to save freedom.
Sentence 57: We can be sure that our enemies will watch this drive with the keenest interest.
Sentence 58: They know that success in this undertaking will shorten the war.
Sentence 59: They know that the more money the American people lend to their Government, the more powerful and relentless will be the American forces in the field.
Sentence 60: They know that only a united and determined America could possibly produce on a voluntary basis so huge a sum of money as fifteen billion dollars.
Sentence 61: The overwhelming success of the Second War Loan Drive last April' showed that the people of this Democracy stood firm behind their troops.
Sentence 62: This Third War Loan, which we are starting tonight, will also succeed—because the American people will not permit it to fail.
Sentence 63: I cannot tell you how much to invest in war bonds during this Third War Loan Drive.
Sentence 64: No one can tell you.
Sentence 65: It is for you to decide under the guidance of your own conscience.
Sentence 66: I will say this, however.
Sentence 67: Because the Nation's needs are greater than ever before, our sacrifices too must be greater than they have ever been before.
Sentence 68: Nobody knows when total victory will come—but we do know that the harder we fight now, the more might and power we direct at the enemy now, the shorter the war will be and the smaller the sum total of sacrifice.
Sentence 69: Success of the Third War Loan will be the symbol that America does not propose to rest on its arms—that we know the tough, bitter job ahead and will not stop until we have finished it.
Sentence 70: Now it is your turn!
Sentence 71: Every dollar that you invest in the Third War Loan is your personal message of defiance to our common enemies- to the ruthless savages of Germany and Japan- and it is your personal message of faith and good cheer to our allies and to all the men at the front.
Sentence 72: God bless them!
