Sentence 1: 1944 Remarks Clarksburg West Virginia

My friends:
Sentence 2: This being Sunday, the Governor, cooperating with me in keeping politics out of it, says that he is not even going to introduce me.
Sentence 3: I have been here before, and it is a great comfort to come on a Sunday in a campaign year, because on Sundays my life is made much more comfortable by not having to think about politics.
Sentence 4: Unfortunately, I do have to think about the war, because every day, including Sundays, dispatches come to me, on the train even, to tell me of the progress of our boys in Europe and in the Pacific and in the Philippines.
Sentence 5: I cannot get rid of that.
Sentence 6: Coming up through the State today, I have been looking out of the window, and I think there is a subject that is a good subject for Sunday, because I remember the line in the poem, "Only God can make a tree."
Sentence 7: And one of the things that people have to realize all over the United States, and I think especially in West Virginia—I don't see the trees I ought to see.
Sentence 8: That is something that we in this country have fallen down on.
Sentence 9: We have been using up natural resources that we ought to have replaced.
Sentence 10: I know we can't replace coal-
Sentence 11: it will be a long time before all the coal is gone—but trees constitute something that we can replace.
Sentence 12: We have to think not just of an annual crop, not just something that we can eat the next year.
Sentence 13: We have to think of a longer crop, something that takes years to grow, but which in the long run is going to do more good for our children and for our grandchildren than if we leave the hills bare.
Sentence 14: I remember a story, and it is taken out of Germany.
Sentence 15: There was a town there-
Sentence 16: I don't know what has happened in the last twenty years—but this is back when I used to be in grade school in Germany—and I used to bicycle.
Sentence 17: And we came to a town, and outside of it there was a great forest.
Sentence 18: And the interesting thing to me, as a boy even, was that the people in that town didn't have to pay taxes.
Sentence 19: They were supported by their own forest.
Sentence 20: Way back in the time of Louis something of France—the French king was approaching this town with a large army.
Sentence 21: And the prince of the time asked the townspeople to come out to defend their principality, and he promised them that if they would keep the invader out of the town, out of the principality, he would give them the forest.
Sentence 22: The burghers turned out.
Sentence 23: They repulsed the French king.
Sentence 24: And very soon the prince made good.
Sentence 25: He gave the forest to the town.
Sentence 26: And for over two hundred years that town in Germany had to pay no taxes.
Sentence 27: Everybody made money, because they had no taxes.
Sentence 28: In other words, it was a forest on an annual-yield basis.
Sentence 29: They cut down perhaps seventy percent of what they could get out of that year's mature crop.
Sentence 30: And every year they planted new trees.
Sentence 31: And every year the proceeds from that forest paid the equivalent of taxes.
Sentence 32: Now that is true more and more in this country.
Sentence 33: There are more and more municipalities that are reforesting their watersheds, putting trees on the top of their hills, preventing the erosion of soil.
Sentence 34: They are not on a self-sustaining basis because it has only been started within the last ten or fifteen years.
Sentence 35: And yet while only God can make a tree, we have to do a little bit to help ourselves.
Sentence 36: I think that all of us sort of look at our lives in terms of ourselves, and yet your children, your grandchildren, your great-grandchildren, your great-great-grandchildren- some of them will be living right around here, right around where the population is today.
Sentence 37: Perhaps the old house- perhaps a better, new house.
Sentence 38: And more and more we are going to think about those grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
Sentence 39: It doesn't amount to very much, this cost of planting trees, and yet the hillsides of West Virginia of our grandparents' day were much more wonderful than they are now.
Sentence 40: It's largely a deforested State.
Sentence 41: And I believe that from the point of view of the beauties of nature, from the point of view of all that trees can be, and from the point of view of your own grandchildren's pocketbooks, the small number of cents, the small number of dollars that go into reforestation are going to come back a thousandfold.
Sentence 42: Up where I live, in the country on the Hudson River, my family had—when I was a boy—five or six hundred acres.
Sentence 43: It wasn't valuable land.
Sentence 44: And my own father, in the old days, would go in every year and cut the family needs in the way of timber.
Sentence 45: When I was a small boy, I realized that there was waste going on; and when I went to the State Senate as a young man, somebody appointed me to the Conservation Committee.
Sentence 46: Some parts of upstate New York were being eroded, a lot of topsoil was running away, we were getting more floods than we had ever had in the old days.
Sentence 47: And just as an experiment, I started planting a few acres each year on run-down land.
Sentence 48: I tried to pasture some skinny cows on it.
Sentence 49: And at the same time, I went into the old woods and cleaned out no-account trees, trees that were under grown or would never amount to anything, crooked trees, rotten trees.
Sentence 50: Well, the answer was this.
Sentence 51: When the last war came on, the old woods had some perfectly splendid trees, because I had cleaned them out, cleaned out the poor stuff.
Sentence 52: And during that war, I made four thousand dollars, just by cutting out the mature trees.
Sentence 53: And I kept on every year.
Sentence 54: And in the winter time, when the men weren't doing much, they cleaned them out.
Sentence 55: And the trees grew.
Sentence 56: And a quarter of a century later, there came this war.
Sentence 57: I think I cooperated with the Almighty, because I think trees were made to grow.
Sentence 58: Oh yes, they are useful as mine timbers.
Sentence 59: I know that.
Sentence 60: But there are a lot of places in this State where there isn't any mine timber being cut out.
Sentence 61: And in this war, back home, I cut last year—and this is not very Christian-
Sentence 62: over four thousand dollars' worth net of oak trees, to make into submarine chasers and landing craft and other implements of war.
Sentence 63: And I am doing it again this year.
Sentence 64: And I hope that this use of wood is growing, for all kinds of modern inventions, plastics, and so forth.
Sentence 65: I hope that when I am able to cut some more trees, twenty or twenty-five years from now—it may not be I, it may be one of the boys—we will be able to use them at a profit, not for building mine chasers or landing craft, but for turning them into some humane use.
Sentence 66: And I believe that in this country—not in this State only, but in a great many more- we in the next few years, when peace comes, will be able to devote more thought to making our country more useful—every acre of it.
Sentence 67: I remember eight years ago, out in the West, we knew that there were great floods and a dry belt in there.
Sentence 68: We knew, also, that trees bring water and avoid floods.
Sentence 69: And so we started one of those "crackpot" things, for which I have been criticized, a thing called the shelter belt, to keep the high winds away, to hold the moisture in the soil.
Sentence 70: And the result is that a great success has been made of that shelter belt.
Sentence 71: Not much ran downhill and the farmers are getting more crops and better crops out there on the prairies in the lea of these rows of trees.
Sentence 72: Forestry pays from the practical point of view.
Sentence 73: I have proved that.
Sentence 74: And so I hope to live long enough to see West Virginia with more trees in it.
Sentence 75: I hope to live to see the day when this generation will be thinking not just of themselves but also of the children and the grandchildren.
Sentence 76: I had a happy day this morning in looking out at this wonderful scenery, but I couldn't take my eyes off those bare hilltops.
Sentence 77: I couldn't take my thoughts off the fact that this generation, and especially the previous generation, have been thinking of themselves and not of the future.
Sentence 78: Some day I hope to come back, and I hope to see a great forestry program for the whole of the State.
Sentence 79: Nearly all of it needs it.
Sentence 80: I hope to come back and be able to say, "I stopped, once upon a time, in Clarksburg, on a Sunday morning, and just avoided politics and talked to the people in Clarksburg, and they must have heard me all over the State, because they started planting trees.
Sentence 81: "
Sentence 82: And so I think my Sunday sermon is just about over.
Sentence 83: It has been good to see you, and I really do hope that I will come back here, one of these days soon.
Sentence 84: Thanks.
