Sentence 1: 1944 Radio Address From The White House 0

I had hoped that during the early part of this week I could have gone in person to some of the nearer midwestern cities, such as Cleveland and Detroit, and I had hoped that I could visit some of my old friends in upstate New York.
Sentence 2: However, on my return to Washington from Chicago, I find that I am not free to spare the time right now.
Sentence 3: Therefore, I am speaking to you from the White House.
Sentence 4: I am disappointed about this—but, as I told the American people a long time ago, I follow the principle of first things first; and this war comes first.
Sentence 5: That is why I have to be right here in Washington.
Sentence 6: We have all been overjoyed by the news from the far Pacific, eight thousand miles away.
Sentence 7: Never before in all of history has it been possible successfully to conduct such massive operations with such long lines of supply and communications.
Sentence 8: In the Pacific Theater, even while we are fighting a major war in Europe, our advance towards Japan is many months ahead of our own optimistic schedule.
Sentence 9: But we must remember that any military operation conducted at such a distance is a hazardous undertaking.
Sentence 10: In any long advance, progress may be interrupted by checks or setbacks.
Sentence 11: However, ultimately our advance will stop only in Tokyo itself.
Sentence 12: Our success has been the result of planning and organization and building; it has been the result of the hardest work and the hardest fighting of which our people are capable.
Sentence 13: On the other side of the world, in Europe, the Allied forces under General Eisenhower are pounding the Germans with relentless force.
Sentence 14: We do not expect to have a winter lull in Europe.
Sentence 15: We expect to keep striking—to keep the enemy on the move—to hit him again and again- to give him no rest—and to drive through to the final objective—Berlin itself.
Sentence 16: In Italy, against the handicap of rugged mountain obstacles, and against bitter German resistance—the Allied armies are steadily moving forward, wearing down the German fighting strength in a slow, hard slugging match.
Sentence 17: In winning this war there is just one sure way to guarantee the minimum of casualties—by seeing to it that, in every action, we have overwhelming material superiority.
Sentence 18: We have already sent to Europe—just one of our many fronts- a force greater than the entire American Expeditionary Force Of 1918.
Sentence 19: American troops are now fighting along a battle line of three hundred miles in northern France and Germany, and about a hundred miles long in Italy.
Sentence 20: Within ten weeks after the first landings in France last June, the Allies had landed on the Normandy beaches nearly two million men, more than two million tons of supplies, and nearly half a million vehicles.
Sentence 21: Think of all that vast mass of material for one operation think of the war factories and the ships and the planes, the railroads and labor required to produce and deliver the right supplies to the right place at the right time.
Sentence 22: Then think of the tasks that lie ahead of us- all the long, tough miles to Berlin—all the major landings yet to be made in the Pacific- and you will have a conception of the magnitude of the job that remains to be done.
Sentence 23: It is still a job requiring the all-out production efforts of all of our people back here at home.
Sentence 24: Delays in the performance of our job at home mean prolonging the war.
Sentence 25: They will mean an increase in the total price we must pay in the lives of our men.
Sentence 26: All of our able commanders in the field know this.
Sentence 27: And so do our soldiers and sailors.
Sentence 28: And we at home must remember it and never forget it.
Sentence 29: All Americans at home are concerned in this—the fulfillment of an obligation to our fighting men.
Sentence 30: And the women of America are also most profoundly concerned.
Sentence 31: Today, women are playing a far more direct, more personal part in the war than ever before.
Sentence 32: First, and I think rightly first, are those women in uniform who have gone into the WAACs and the WAVES, the Marines and the Coast Guard, the nursing services of the Army and Navy, the Red Cross- serving in all kinds of places, in and out of the United States—all of them performing functions which definitely relieve men for combat work.
Sentence 33: Then there are the millions of women who have gone into war industries.
Sentence 34: They are greatly responsible for the fact that the munitions and supplies to our men at the front have gone through to them on time.
Sentence 35: And, finally, the women who uncomplainingly have done the job of keeping the homes going—the homes with service flags in the windows- service flags with blue stars or gold stars.
Sentence 36: And we do not forget those women who have volunteered with the men in the difficult and important work of the ration boards all over the Nation- doing the job of apportioning the necessities of life equitably among their neighbors- rich and poor.
Sentence 37: Everyone who has made a sacrifice in this war—and that includes pretty close to one hundred and thirty-five million Americans—is determined that this must not happen again-that the disastrous mistakes of the past shall not be repeated-that this Nation shall be committed to playing a leading part in a world organization which shall be strong and effective and enduring.
Sentence 38: We have been told during this political campaign that unless the American people elect the Republican Presidential choice, the Congress will not cooperate in the peace.
Sentence 39: That is a threat to build a party spite-fence between us and the peace.
Sentence 40: I do not know who empowers these men to speak for the Congress in uttering such a threat.
Sentence 41: Certainly the United States Senate and the House of Representatives showed no reluctance to agree with the foreign policy of this Administration when, almost unanimously last year, they passed the Connally and Fulbright Resolutions which pledged this Nation to cooperate in a world organization for peace.
Sentence 42: These are high and serious matters to those who know how greatly our victory in this war and our ability to establish a lasting peace depend on maintaining unshaken that understanding Which must be the core of the success of the United Nations.
Sentence 43: It is heartening for me to have known and to have talked with the statesmen not of the big Nations only, but the statesmen of the smaller Nations-men like Benes of Czechoslovakia, Mikolajczyk of Poland, Nygaardswold of Norway—and leaders of democratic thought from Yugoslavia and Greece and Denmark and Belgium and The Netherlands—and, of course, the great leaders of our neighbor countries in this hemisphere.
Sentence 44: I have spent many fruitful hours talking with men from the more remote Nations—such as Turkey, Persia, Arabia, Palestine, Abyssinia, Liberia, Siam, and others—for all of them are part and parcel of the great family of Nations.
Sentence 45: It is only through an understanding acquired by years of consultation, that one can get a viewpoint of their problems and their innate yearnings for freedom.
Sentence 46: And all of them have this in common- that they yearn for peace and stability, and they look to the United States of America with hope and with faith.
Sentence 47: The world is rising from the agony of the past.
Sentence 48: The world is turning with hope to the future.
Sentence 49: It would be a sorry and a cynical thing to betray this hope for the sake of mere political advantage, and a tragic thing to shatter it because of the failure of vision.
Sentence 50: There have been some other aspects of this campaign which have been distasteful to all of us.
Sentence 51: This campaign has been marred by even more than the usual crop of whisperings and rumorings.
Sentence 52: Some of these get into print, in certain types of newspapers; others are traded about, secretly, in one black market after another.
Sentence 53: I do not propose to answer in kind.
Sentence 54: The voting record proves that the American people pay little attention to whispering campaigns.
Sentence 55: They have paid little attention to all the malignant rumors of enemy origin that have flooded this country before and during this war—and I am sure that they will treat the present whispering with the same contempt.
Sentence 56: As we approach election day, more wicked charges may be made—and probably will—with the hope that someone or somebody will gain momentary advantage.
Sentence 57: Hysterical, last-minute accusations or sensational revelations, are trumped up in an attempt to panic the people on election day.
Sentence 58: But the American people are not panicked easily.
Sentence 59: Pearl Harbor proved that.
Sentence 60: This election will not be decided on a basis of malignant murmurings—or shouts.
Sentence 61: It will be settled on the basis of the record.
Sentence 62: We all know the record of our military achievements in this war.
Sentence 63: And we all know the record of the tremendous production achievements of our American farmers, our American businessmen, and our American labor.
Sentence 64: And we all know the record of our teamwork with our allies.
Sentence 65: Immediately after Pearl Harbor we formed with the other United Nations the greatest military coalition in all of world history.
Sentence 66: And we have gone steadily on from that to establish the basis for a strong and durable organization for world peace.
Sentence 67: The America which built the greatest war machine in all history, and which kept it supplied, is an America which can look to the future with confidence and faith.
Sentence 68: I propose the continuance of the teamwork that we have demonstrated in this war.
Sentence 69: By carrying out the plans we have made we can avoid a postwar depression- we can provide employment for our veterans and our war workers- we can achieve an orderly reconversion.
Sentence 70: Above all, we can avoid another false boom like that which burst in 1929, and a dismal collapse like that of 1930 to 1933.
Sentence 71: With continuance of our teamwork, I look forward, under the leadership of this Government, to an era of expansion and production and employment—to new industries, to increased security.
Sentence 72: I look forward to millions of new homes, fit for decent living; to new, low-priced automobiles; new highways; new airplanes and airports; to television; and other miraculous new inventions and discoveries, made during this war, which will be adapted to the peacetime uses of a peace-loving people.
Sentence 73: The record that we have established in this war is one of which every American has a right to be proud—today and for all time.
Sentence 74: We do not want the later record to say that the great job was done in vain.
Sentence 75: We do not want our boys to come back to an America which is headed for another war in another generation.
Sentence 76: Our postwar job will be to work, to build—for a better America than we have ever known.
Sentence 77: If in the next few years we can start that job right, then you and I can know that we have kept faith with our boys—we have helped them to win a total victory.
