Sentence 1: 1944 Excerpts From The Press Conference 6

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I have a number of fairly interesting items.
Sentence 3: Today is the tenth anniversary of the signing of the Tydings-McDuffie Act for Philippine independence.
Sentence 4: It seems like almost yesterday that we signed that.
Sentence 5: And in view of that anniversary, I thought that I would like to say just a few short sentences to the Filipino people.
Sentence 6: (Reading, not literally): On this the tenth anniversary of the passage of the Tydings-McDuffie Act, I take the opportunity of conveying again a message of friendship and good will to the people of the Philippines.
Sentence 7: "American-Filipino friendship has had a long history.
Sentence 8: The bill for Philippine independence which I signed ten years ago was a concrete manifestation of that friendship.
Sentence 9: It is a source of deep gratification today to be able to say to the brave people who are now bearing the yoke of Japanese domination, that the return of freedom to the Islands draws closer with each Allied victory.
Sentence 10: The Philippine Government temporarily residing here possesses all of the attributes of an independent Nation.
Sentence 11: And finally, America will fulfill her pledge.
Sentence 12: "
I am very sorry to announce that Lowell Mellett is getting out of here.
Sentence 13: Much to my disgust he's gone and done it again, and there is nothing for me to do except to accept it.
Sentence 14: He is going to the Washington Star, and perhaps other newspapers.
Sentence 15: I am awfully sorry he is going, but I know he will be extremely useful there.
Sentence 16: He knows how to write, which is more—some people don't—(laughter)—although his letter of resignation to me and my acceptance of it was turned over to Steve
Sentence 17: [Early], and Steve edited them both.
Sentence 18: (Laughter)
Sentence 19: However, they are very lovely letters, in spite of what Steve did to them.
Sentence 20: And you can have copies of them.
Sentence 21: Leo Crowley resigned as Alien Property Custodian.
Sentence 22: And Steve has his letter of resignation and my acceptance thereof.
Sentence 23: Of course, it doesn't change his duties in any way in his other work.
Sentence 24: And with it I picked up an old letter that he wrote me a few days ago, about his other work—Foreign Economic Administration- which I think is worth reading a .paragraph of.
Sentence 25: (Reading, not literally): "After the authorization and appropriation for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration are made, if the Foreign Economic Administration is the American agency charged with the responsibility for handling the appropriation, it will, in collaboration with the War Production Board and the other American allocating agencies, weigh the requests of the U.N.R.R.A. for farm machinery as well as other supplies in the light of our war needs"-
- that is farm machinery to go abroad —
"-the needs of the American farmers or civilians for farm machinery or other supplies and other needs elsewhere.
Sentence 26: As you are well aware, the F.E.A., in their screening of farm machinery moving abroad under lend-lease, has clearly kept these, as well as other relevant considerations, in mind.
Sentence 27: "Thus, for example, the amount of farm machinery exported under lend-lease since the beginning of the program has been less than 2 percent of the available American supplies.
Sentence 28: "
I would love to have that figure used as a correction of some statements that have been made in the paper.
Sentence 29: "This equipment has been sent in the main to countries such as Australia, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom to assist in increasing vitally needed food production for war.
Sentence 30: As you know, these countries, under reverse lend-lease, and without payment by us, have supplied our armed forces with very substantial quantities of food.
Sentence 31: "
That's a great many people.
Sentence 32: Add them up.
Sentence 33: And I think it is worth while to repeat something that I gave you a long time ago—couple of months ago—and that is by the first of July this year we will have five million men outside the United States.
Sentence 34: That's a lot of people.
Sentence 35: "Australia and New Zealand, for instance, have supplied our forces under reverse lend-lease with approximately the same amount of beef and veal which we have exported to all lend-lease countries.
Sentence 36: In the United Kingdom more than 20 per cent of the food for our forces has been supplied under reverse lend-lease."
Sentence 37: Now, the next thing is the work of that interdepartmental committee in regard to refugees—the War Refugee Board.
Sentence 38: I think perhaps this is an opportune time to release a statement which I prepared last week.
Sentence 39: We are keeping in close touch with the Prime Minister and Mr. Stalin in regard to this; it is done with their full knowledge and approval.
Sentence 40: In the first place, I am making Mr. John W. Pehle, who has been acting director for the past month or two, a full director.
Sentence 41: And the work is doing very well, actually getting refugees out.
Sentence 42: (Reading, not literally): "The United Nations are fighting to make a world in which tyranny and aggression cannot exist; a world based upon freedom, equality, and justice; a world in which all persons regardless of race, color, or creed may live in peace, honor, and dignity.
Sentence 43: "
Some of you people who are wandering around asking the bellhop whether we have a foreign policy or not, I think that's a pretty good paragraph.
Sentence 44: We have a foreign policy.
Sentence 45: Some people may not know it, but we really have.
Sentence 46: Q. Mr. President, does this country too plan to open itself up as a haven for these refugees?
Sentence 47: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 48: Well, we are taking care of all the refugees that we can get out now.
Sentence 49: We have a great many in North Africa, you know, at the present time.
Sentence 50: Q.
Sentence 51: What I meant was, whether we plan to bring any here or not?
Sentence 52: THE PRESIDENT: No, not yet; because there aren't enough to come, which is one reason—a pretty good one ....
Sentence 53: Q. Mr. President, the fisherman is catching about an average of 80 thousand pounds of food a year, and do you have any plans to protect this supply of food? . . .
Sentence 54: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 55: Well, I don't know.
Sentence 56: I haven't done anything about it since last spring, but the Bureau of Fisheries, you know, at that time, was working on an effort to use all fish that were brought in.
Sentence 57: It was a problem, at that time, partly of refrigeration and partly of transportation.
Sentence 58: Q.
Sentence 59: It's a problem now of draft deferment.
Sentence 60: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 61: Well, all I remember is that last year there was a lovely plan that was offered to me, in a personal letter, which took the time of twenty or thirty Government employees to run down, and that was the theory that a boy of sixteen could catch fish just as well as a boy of eighteen.
Sentence 62: And they decided unanimously that that was probably so.
Sentence 63: In other words, it's a question of letting some of the older boys do it, and some of the younger boys.
Sentence 64: I am one of the older boys that catches fish.
Sentence 65: (Laughter)
