Sentence 1: 1944 Excerpts From The Press Conference

Q. Mr. President, there have been some proposals that Congress might consider a plan for universal military training after the war.
Sentence 2: THE PRESIDENT: (interjecting) Yes.
Sentence 3: Q. (continuing) Would you care to express your thought on that?
Sentence 4: THE PRESIDENT: Not at this time, other than that I have given a great deal of study to that question and I wish people would study it.
Sentence 5: You know, we shall have one problem after the war—I have seen a small angle of it on this last trip—we have all over the United States, and outside the United States for that matter, an enormous amount of soldiers' and sailors' housing-these great training camps both on the military and the naval and marine end of it, and the Coast Guard too.
Sentence 6: And that is how we have been able to effect this very extraordinary and successful training of about ten million men.
Sentence 7: I suppose in those camps today we have Government housing for five million men.
Sentence 8: And it's very good housing, even in the distant Aleutian Islands and Alaska, all over this country.
Sentence 9: Frankly, it's infinitely better than the housing of the first World War, with which I had something to do.
Sentence 10: We built housing for troops and for naval trainees during the first World War, and some of it is still in Washington.
Sentence 11: It's in a pretty decrepit state.
Sentence 12: Well, it's twenty-five years later, but it's still there because it was in the Capital City, and we kept it painted, and we kept it properly underpinned.
Sentence 13: The new housing is very much better.
Sentence 14: It is rather interesting to compare the construction.
Sentence 15: The estimate in 1917 and 1918 on that housing was that it would last ten or twelve years.
Sentence 16: We all thought it would last that long, and most of it at the end of the first World War was scrapped—sold for lumber while we could sell it- turned into kindling wood, if we couldn't sell it.
Sentence 17: And today, the construction, if you go and look at it all over the country, probably has a life with normal care of perhaps twenty-five years.
Sentence 18: It sits on concrete pillars, or stone foundations, whatever it is.
Sentence 19: It won't rot away if it is kept painted, and especially if it is kept lived in.
Sentence 20: As we all know, a building that isn't lived in is very hard to maintain—a great deal harder than a building that is lived in.
Sentence 21: Well, we will have about five million beds.
Sentence 22: What are we going to do with them?
Sentence 23: It's an awful problem.
Sentence 24: That's an awful lot of buildings.
Sentence 25: There are two or three different things which obviously it could be put to use on.
Sentence 26: One is taking care of the large number of veterans.
Sentence 27: The buildings are not fireproof but they are two stories high, and most certainly we ought not to put veterans on the second floor.
Sentence 28: They are all fitted out so that you can get out at any one of the four corners of a building and climb down a fire-escape, but non-ambulatory cases, that is, cases that can't walk, should not be put on the second floor of any of those buildings.
Sentence 29: Then, there will be a tremendous number of wounded or sick veterans at the end of this war who will have to be taken care of.
Sentence 30: That is one use that we can put many of these encampments to work on, under the Veterans' Administration.
Sentence 31: Another use.
Sentence 32: We are going to have a great many problems of vocational training of these veterans.
Sentence 33: I am just taking samples— there are a great many other uses they can be put to.
Sentence 34: I would rather at the end of the war, if we can help it, not put up any new buildings if we have other buildings that can be used for that purpose.
Sentence 35: Then, there is still another use, and that is to use them for people in training, and there is a great deal of talk today about how good it would be for the average boy to get training of some kind.
Sentence 36: I am not putting the word military on it some of it would be military—but it would be training, somewhere between the ages of 17 to 22-23—one year out of their life to serve their own Government.
Sentence 37: Well, it's worth studying.
Sentence 38: You know, the average one of us who hasn't had military training doesn't know how to get along and keep clean in a camp with a lot of other human beings.
Sentence 39: It's rather a special art, to live with a large crowd of people.
Sentence 40: And then there is a curious thing called discipline, which is not to be sneezed at, although it is sneezed at by a very large number of people in this country today.
Sentence 41: I am not specifying.
Sentence 42: You can specify if you want to.
Sentence 43: Discipline is rather a good thing for a Nation to have.
Sentence 44: It makes for law.
Sentence 45: We are not a very law-abiding people.
Sentence 46: It makes for order.
Sentence 47: We are not so bad on that, but a year of learning how to keep clean, how to live with a group of a hundred, two hundred people is a good thing.
Sentence 48: One of the best examples is what happened to the Civilian Conservation Corps.
Sentence 49: I suppose a much higher percentage of boys in 1933 and 1934 and those following years—a very, very much larger percentage than I had had any idea of were improved physically and mentally by C.C.C. At the same time, they were given certain other things in C.C.C., how to live together in a group, and how to do things that they were told—use their muscles a bit.
Sentence 50: Well, for instance, this crowd in this room is muscularly in very bad shape.
Sentence 51: (Laughter)
Sentence 52: Well, C.C.C. did them good.
Sentence 53: And we taught them other things.
Sentence 54: We gave many of them, without their recognizing it, we gave them vocational training.
Sentence 55: I see people here that couldn't wield a spade.
Sentence 56: Perfectly obvious.
Sentence 57: They would have an awful time if they were told to dig a ditch, even a little shallow ditch.
Sentence 58: It would be a very good thing for some people that I am looking at.
Sentence 59: (Laughter)
Sentence 60: So there is this problem of a year of Government service —vocational training, and some other kind of training.
Sentence 61: Even stenography—not a bad idea.
Sentence 62: Fit them for Government work.
Sentence 63: If nothing else, they might be able to pass the examination for the Civil Service a little more easily, if they had a year in the Federal Government.
Sentence 64: And that is why I am glad you raised the question.
Sentence 65: It's being studied.
Sentence 66: It's being thought about.
Sentence 67: But I think that public opinion ought to be gradually formed in this country.
Sentence 68: We have one of the practical financial questions that come up.
Sentence 69: We have the housing for the bulk of the two and a quarter million boys who would come in, somewhere between the ages of 17 and 22, or something like that, and give a year of service to the Government.
Sentence 70: I wouldn't call it compulsory military training, because in many cases we wouldn't have military training.
Sentence 71: A year of service to their Government. . .
Sentence 72: .
Sentence 73: Q. Mr. President, Senator Truman today has already endorsed combining the Army and Navy commands.
Sentence 74: Have you any comment on that?
Sentence 75: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 76: No. I thought—
Q. (adding) One service.
Sentence 77: THE PRESIDENT: (continuing)—the thing is being studied.
Sentence 78: It's a thing that everybody is practically agreed on now that we are not going to do anything about it until after we have won the war.
Sentence 79: Q. Mr. President, can you tell us any plans you have for Mr. Truman in the campaign?
Sentence 80: He said he will be guided by your views.
Sentence 81: THE PRESIDENT: Not yet, because I haven't seen him yet.
Sentence 82: He is coming in to lunch today.
Sentence 83: Q. Have you any plans to see Mr. Wallace?
Sentence 84: THE PRESIDENT: Just as soon as he gets back.
Sentence 85: Q.
Sentence 86: He is out of town now, I believe?
Sentence 87: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 88: He is out of town.
