Sentence 1: 1944 Address Union Dinner Washington Dc

(Dinner of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America.)
Sentence 2: WELL, here we are together again—after four years—and what years they have been!
Sentence 3: You know, I am actually four years older, which is a fact that seems to annoy some people.
Sentence 4: In fact, in the mathematical field there are millions of Americans who are more than eleven years older than when we started in to clear up the mess that was dumped in our laps in 1933.
Sentence 5: We all know that certain people who make it a practice to depreciate the accomplishments of labor—who even attack labor as unpatriotic—they keep this up usually for three years and six months in a row.
Sentence 6: But then, for some strange reason they change their tune- every four years- just before election day.
Sentence 7: When votes are at stake, they suddenly discover that they really love labor and that they are anxious to protect labor from its old friends.
Sentence 8: I got quite a laugh, for example-
Sentence 9: and I am sure that you did —when I read this plank in the Republican platform adopted at their National Convention in Chicago last July:
"The Republican Party accepts the purposes of the National Labor Relations Act, the Wage and Hour Act, the Social Security Act and all other Federal statutes designed to promote and protect the welfare of American working men and women, and we promise a fair and just administration of these laws.
Sentence 10: "
You know, many of the Republican leaders and Congressmen and candidates, who shouted enthusiastic approval of that plank in that Convention Hall would not even recognize these progressive laws if they met them in broad daylight.
Sentence 11: Indeed, they have personally spent years of effort and energy-and much money—in fighting every one of those laws in the Congress, and in the press, and in the courts, ever since this Administration began to advocate them and enact them into legislation.
Sentence 12: That is a fair example of their insincerity and of their inconsistency.
Sentence 13: The whole purpose of Republican oratory these days seems to be to switch labels.
Sentence 14: The object is to persuade the American people that the Democratic Party was responsible for the 1929 crash and the depression, and that the Republican Party was responsible for all social progress under the New Deal.
Sentence 15: Now, imitation may be the sincerest form of flattery—but I am afraid that in this case it is the most obvious common or garden variety of fraud.
Sentence 16: Of course, it is perfectly true that there are enlightened, liberal elements in the Republican Party, and they have fought hard and honorably to bring the Party up to date and to get it in step with the forward march of American progress.
Sentence 17: But these liberal elements were not able to drive the Old Guard Republicans from their entrenched positions.
Sentence 18: Can the Old Guard pass itself off as the New Deal?
Sentence 19: I think not.
Sentence 20: We have all seen many marvelous stunts in the circus but no performing elephant could turn a hand-spring without falling flat on his back.
Sentence 21: I need not recount to you the centuries of history which have been crowded into these four years since I saw you last.
Sentence 22: There were some—in the Congress and out—who raised their voices against our preparations for defense—before and after 1939 —objected to them, raised their voices against them as hysterical war mongering, who cried out against our help to the Allies as provocative and dangerous.
Sentence 23: We remember the voices.
Sentence 24: They would like to have us forget them now.
Sentence 25: But in 1940 and 1941— my, it seems a long time ago—they were loud voices.
Sentence 26: Happily they were a minority and—fortunately for ourselves, and for the world—they could not stop America.
Sentence 27: There are some politicians who kept their heads buried deep in the sand while the storms of Europe and Asia were headed Our way, who said that the lend-lease bill "would bring an end to free government in the United States," and who said, "only hysteria entertains the idea that Germany, Italy, or Japan contemplates war on us."
Sentence 28: These very men are now asking the American people to intrust to them the conduct of our foreign policy and our military policy.
Sentence 29: What the Republican leaders are now saying in effect is this: "Oh, just forget what we used to say, we have changed our minds now— we have been reading the public opinion polls about these things and now we know what the American people want."
Sentence 30: And they say: "Don't leave the task of making the peace to those old men who first urged it and who have already laid the foundations for it, and who have had to fight all of us inch by inch during the last five years to do it.
Sentence 31: Why, just turn it all over to us.
Sentence 32: We'll do it so skillfully- that we won't lose a single isolationist vote or a single isolationist campaign contribution.
Sentence 33: "
I think there is one thing that you know: I am too old for that.
Sentence 34: I cannot talk out of both sides of my mouth at the same time.
Sentence 35: The Government welcomes all sincere supporters of the cause of effective world collaboration in the making of a lasting peace.
Sentence 36: Millions of Republicans all over the Nation are with us— and have been with us— in our unshakable determination to build the solid structure of peace.
Sentence 37: And they too will resent this campaign talk by those who first woke up to the facts of international life a few short months ago when they began to study the polls of public opinion.
Sentence 38: Those who today have the military responsibility for waging this war in all parts of the globe are not helped by the statements of men who, without responsibility and without' the knowledge of the facts, lecture the Chiefs of Staff of the United States as to the best means of dividing our armed forces and our military resources between the Atlantic and Pacific, between the Army and the Navy, and among the commanding generals of the different theaters of war.
Sentence 39: And I may say that those commanding generals are making good in a big way.
Sentence 40: When I addressed you four years ago, I said, "I know that America will never be disappointed in its expectation that labor will always continue to do its share of the job we now face and do it patriotically and effectively and unselfishly.
Sentence 41: "
Today we know that America has not been disappointed.
Sentence 42: In his Order of the Day when the Allied armies first landed in Normandy two months ago, General Eisenhower said: "Our home fronts have given us overwhelming superiority in weapons and munitions of war.
Sentence 43: "
Sentence 44: The country knows that there is a breed of cats, luckily not too numerous, called labor-baiters.
Sentence 45: I know that there are labor baiters among the opposition who, instead of calling attention to the achievements of labor in this war, prefer to pick on the occasional strikes that have occurred—strikes that have been condemned by every responsible national labor leader.
Sentence 46: I ought to say, parenthetically, all but one.
Sentence 47: And that one labor leader, incidentally, is certainly not conspicuous among my supporters.
Sentence 48: Labor-baiters forget that at our peak American labor and management have turned out airplanes at the rate of 109,000 a year; tanks—57,000 a year; combat vessels—573 a year; landing vessels, to get the troops ashore- 31,000 a year; cargo ships- 19 million tons a year—and Henry Kaiser is here tonight, I am glad to say; and small arms ammunition-
Sentence 49: oh, I can't understand it, I don't believe you can either—23 billion rounds a year.
Sentence 50: But a strike is news, and generally appears in shrieking headlines—and, of course, they say labor is always to blame.
Sentence 51: The fact is that since Pearl Harbor only one-tenth of one percent of man-hours have been lost by strikes.
Sentence 52: Can you beat that?
Sentence 53: But, you know, even those candidates who burst out in election-year affection for social legislation and for labor in general, still think that you ought to be good boys and stay out of politics.
Sentence 54: And above all, they hate to see any working man or woman contribute a dollar bill to any wicked political party.
Sentence 55: Of course, it is all right for large financiers and industrialists and monopolists to contribute tens of thousands of dollars—but their solicitude for that dollar which the men and women in the ranks of labor contribute is always very touching.
Sentence 56: They are, of course, perfectly willing to let you vote- unless you happen to be a soldier or a sailor overseas, or a merchant seaman carrying the munitions of war.
Sentence 57: In that case they have made it pretty hard for you to vote at all—for there are some political candidates who think that they may have a chance of election, if only the total vote is small enough.
Sentence 58: And while I am on the subject of voting, let me urge every American citizen—man and woman- to use your sacred privilege of voting, no matter which candidate you expect to support.
Sentence 59: Our millions of soldiers and sailors and merchant seamen have been handicapped or prevented from voting by those politicians and candidates who think that they stand to lose by such votes.
Sentence 60: You here at home have the freedom of the ballot.
Sentence 61: Irrespective of party, you should register and vote this November.
Sentence 62: I think that is a matter of plain good citizenship.
Sentence 63: Words come easily, but they do not change the record.
Sentence 64: You are, most of you, old enough to remember what things were like for labor in 1932.
Sentence 65: You remember the closed banks and the breadlines and the starvation wages; the foreclosures of homes and farms, and the bankruptcies of business; the "Hoovervilles," and the young men and women of the Nation facing a hopeless, jobless future; the closed factories and mines and mills; the ruined and abandoned farms; the stalled railroads and the empty docks; the blank despair of a whole Nation—and the utter impotence of the Federal Government.
Sentence 66: You remember the long, hard road, with its gains and its setbacks, which we have traveled together ever since those days.
Sentence 67: Now there are some politicians who do not remember that far back, and there are some who remember but find it convenient to forget.
Sentence 68: No, the record is not to be washed away that easily.
Sentence 69: The opposition in this year has already imported into this campaign a very interesting thing, because it is foreign.
Sentence 70: They have imported the propaganda technique invented by the dictators abroad.
Sentence 71: Remember, a number of years ago, there was a book, Mein Kampf, written by Hitler himself.
Sentence 72: The technique was all set out in Hitler's book—and it was copied by the aggressors of Italy and Japan.
Sentence 73: According to that technique, you should never use a small falsehood; always a big one, for its very fantastic nature would make it more credible- if only you keep repeating it over and over and over again.
Sentence 74: Well, let us take some simple illustrations that come to mind.
Sentence 75: For example, although I rubbed my eyes when I read it, we have been told that it was not a Republican depression, but a Democratic depression from which this Nation was saved in 1933-that this Administration this one today- is responsible for all the suffering and misery that the history books and the American people have always thought had been brought about during the twelve ill-fated years when the Republican party was in power.
Sentence 76: Now, there is an old and somewhat lugubrious adage which says: "Never speak of rope in the house of a man who has been hanged."
Sentence 77: In the same way, if I were a Republican leader speaking to a mixed audience, the last word in the whole dictionary that I think I would use is that word "depression."
Sentence 78: You know, they pop up all the time.
Sentence 79: For another example, I learned- much to my amazement-
Sentence 80: that the policy of this Administration was to keep men in the Army when the war was over, because there might be no jobs for them in civil life.
Sentence 81: Well, the very day that this fantastic charge was first made, a formal plan for the method of speedy discharge from the Army had already been announced by the War Department—a plan based on the wishes of the soldiers themselves.
Sentence 82: This callous and brazen falsehood about demobilization did, of course, a very simple thing; it was an effort to stimulate fear among American mothers and wives and sweethearts.
Sentence 83: And, incidentally, it was hardly calculated to bolster the morale of our soldiers and sailors and airmen who are fighting our battles all over the world.
Sentence 84: But perhaps the most ridiculous of these campaign falsifications is the one that this Administration failed to prepare for the war that was coming.
Sentence 85: I doubt whether even Goebbels would have tried that one.
Sentence 86: For even he would never have dared hope that the voters of America had already forgotten that many of the Republican leaders in the Congress and outside the Congress tried to thwart and block nearly every attempt that this Administration made to warn our people and to arm our Nation.
Sentence 87: Some of them called our 50,000 airplane program fantastic.
Sentence 88: Many of those very same leaders who fought every defense measure that we proposed are still in control of the Republican party—look at their names— were in control of its National Convention in Chicago, and would be in control of the machinery of the Congress and of the Republican party, in the event of a Republican victory this fall.
Sentence 89: These Republican leaders have not been content with attacks on me, or my wife, or on my sons.
Sentence 90: No, not content with that, they now include my little dog, Fala.
Sentence 91: Well, of course, I don't resent attacks, and my family doesn't resent attacks, but Fala does resent them.
Sentence 92: You know, Fala is Scotch, and being a Scottie, as soon as he learned that the Republican fiction writers in Congress and out had concocted a story that I had left him behind on the Aleutian Islands and had sent a destroyer back to find him— at a cost to the taxpayers of two or three, or eight or twenty million dollars- his Scotch soul was furious.
Sentence 93: He has not been the same dog since.
Sentence 94: I am accustomed to hearing malicious falsehoods about myself—such as that old, worm-eaten chestnut that I have represented myself as indispensable.
Sentence 95: But I think I have a right to resent, to object to libelous statements about my dog.
Sentence 96: Well, I think we all recognize the old technique.
Sentence 97: The people of this country know the past too well to be deceived into forgetting.
Sentence 98: Too much is at stake to forget.
Sentence 99: There are tasks ahead of us which we must now complete with the same will and the same skill and intelligence and devotion that have already led us so far along the road to victory.
Sentence 100: There is the task of finishing victoriously this most terrible of all wars as speedily as possible and with the least cost in lives.
Sentence 101: There is the task of setting up international machinery to assure that the peace, once established, will not again be broken.
Sentence 102: And there is the task that we face here at home— the task of reconverting our economy from the purposes of war to the purposes of peace.
Sentence 103: These peace-building tasks were faced once before, nearly a generation ago.
Sentence 104: They were botched by a Republican administration.
Sentence 105: That must not happen this time.
Sentence 106: We will not let it happen this time.
Sentence 107: Fortunately, we do not begin from scratch.
Sentence 108: Much has been done.
Sentence 109: Much more is under way.
Sentence 110: The fruits of victory this time will not be apples sold on street corners.
Sentence 111: Many months ago, this Administration set up the necessary machinery for an orderly peacetime demobilization.
Sentence 112: The Congress has passed much more legislation continuing the agencies needed for demobilization—with additional powers to carry out their functions.
Sentence 113: I know that the American people- business and labor and agriculture- have the same will to do for peace what they have done for war.
Sentence 114: And I know that they can sustain a national income that will assure full production and full employment under our democratic system of private enterprise, with Government encouragement and aid whenever and wherever that is necessary.
Sentence 115: The keynote of all that we propose to do in reconversion can be found in the one word jobs.
Sentence 116: We shall lease or dispose of our Government-owned plants and facilities and our surplus war property and land, on the basis of how they can best be operated by private enterprise to give jobs to the greatest number.
Sentence 117: We shall follow a wage policy that will sustain the purchasing power of labor—for that means more production and more jobs.
Sentence 118: You and I know that the present policies on wages and prices were conceived to serve the needs of the great masses of the people.
Sentence 119: They stopped inflation.
Sentence 120: They kept prices on a relatively stable level.
Sentence 121: Through the demobilization period, policies will be carried out with the same objective in mind—to serve the needs of the great masses of the people.
Sentence 122: This is not the time in which men can be forgotten as they were in the Republican catastrophe that we inherited.
Sentence 123: The returning soldiers, the workers by their machines, the farmers in the field, the miners, the men and women in offices and shops, do not intend to be forgotten.
Sentence 124: No, they know that they are not surplus.
Sentence 125: Because they know that they are America.
Sentence 126: We must set targets and objectives for the future which will seem impossible—like the airplanes—to those who live in and are weighted down by the dead past.
Sentence 127: We are even now organizing the logistics of the peace, just as Marshall and King and Arnold, MacArthur, Eisenhower, and Nimitz are organizing the logistics of this war.
Sentence 128: I think that the victory of the American people and their allies in this war will be far more than a victory against Fascism and reaction and the dead hand of despotism of the past.
Sentence 129: The victory of the American people and their allies in this war will be a victory for democracy.
Sentence 130: It will constitute such an affirmation of the strength and power and vitality of government by the people as history has never before witnessed.
Sentence 131: And so, my friends, we have had affirmation of the vitality of democratic government behind us, that demonstration of its resilience and its capacity for decision and for action- we have that knowledge of our own strength and power—we move forward with God's help to the greatest epoch of free achievement by free men that the world has ever known..
