Sentence 1: 1944 Prayer D Day

My fellow Americans: Last night, when I spoke with you about the fall of Rome, I knew at that moment that troops of the United States and our allies were crossing the Channel in another and greater operation.
Sentence 2: It has come to pass with success thus far.
Sentence 3: And so, in this poignant hour, I ask you to join with me in prayer:
Sentence 4: Almighty God: Our sons, pride of our Nation, this day have set upon a mighty endeavor, a struggle to preserve our Republic, our religion, and our civilization, and to set free a suffering humanity.
Sentence 5: Lead them straight and true; give strength to their arms, stoutness to their hearts, steadfastness in their faith.
Sentence 6: They will need Thy blessings.
Sentence 7: Their road will be long and hard.
Sentence 8: For the enemy is strong.
Sentence 9: He may hurl back our forces.
Sentence 10: Success may not come with rushing speed, but we shall return again and again; and we know that by Thy grace, and by the righteousness of our cause, our sons will triumph.
Sentence 11: They will be sore tried, by night and by day, without rest-until the victory is won.
Sentence 12: The darkness will be rent by noise and flame.
Sentence 13: Men's souls will be shaken with the violences of war.
Sentence 14: For these men are lately drawn from the ways of peace.
Sentence 15: They fight not for the lust of conquest.
Sentence 16: They fight to end conquest.
Sentence 17: They fight to liberate.
Sentence 18: They fight to let justice arise, and tolerance and good will among all Thy people.
Sentence 19: They yearn but for the end of battle, for their return to the haven of home.
Sentence 20: Some will never return.
Sentence 21: Embrace these, Father, and receive them, Thy heroic servants, into Thy kingdom.
Sentence 22: And for us at home - fathers, mothers, children, wives, sisters, and brothers of brave men overseas - whose thoughts and prayers are ever with them - help us, Almighty God, to rededicate ourselves in renewed faith in Thee in this hour of great sacrifice.
Sentence 23: Many people have urged that I call the Nation into a single day of special prayer.
Sentence 24: But because the road is long and the desire is great, I ask that our people devote themselves in a continuance of prayer.
Sentence 25: As we rise to each new day, and again when each day is spent, let words of prayer be on our lips, invoking Thy help to our efforts.
Give us strength, too - strength in our daily tasks, to redouble the contributions we make in the physical and the material support of our armed forces.
Sentence 26: And let our hearts be stout, to wait out the long travail, to bear sorrows that may come, to impart our courage unto our sons wheresoever they may be.
Sentence 27: And, O Lord, give us Faith.
Sentence 28: Give us Faith in Thee; Faith in our sons; Faith in each other; Faith in our united crusade.
Sentence 29: Let not the keenness of our spirit ever be dulled.
Sentence 30: Let not the impacts of temporary events, of temporal matters of but fleeting moment let not these deter us in our unconquerable purpose.
Sentence 31: With Thy blessing, we shall prevail over the unholy forces of our enemy.
Sentence 32: Help us to conquer the apostles of greed and racial arrogancies.
Sentence 33: Lead us to the saving of our country, and with our sister Nations into a world unity that will spell a sure peace a peace invulnerable to the schemings of unworthy men.
Sentence 34: And a peace that will let all of men live in freedom, reaping the just rewards of their honest toil.
Sentence 35: Thy will be done, Almighty God.
Sentence 36: Amen.
