Sentence 1: 1944 Remarks Kingston New York

Your neighbor from across the river is mighty glad to be back here after four years.
Sentence 2: It has become a sort of a four-year custom by now.
Sentence 3: But it is rather a good custom for me to come to Kingston, and I always like it.
Sentence 4: I am happy, too, that now my county across the river is going to have a new Congressman.
Sentence 5: I told them in Newburgh that I was very glad that the legislature had taken my Congressman away from me, and that Hamilton Fish won't be my Congressman after the first of January.
Sentence 6: You know, I go back into the history of this city quite a long way, because I had an ancestor who came up from New York to a place called Esopus about 1660, which is quite a way back.
Sentence 7: And he came up here just in time to take a musket and help to repel Indians who tried to kill all the original settlers.
Sentence 8: He was a member of what they called the militia in those days.
Sentence 9: And that, perhaps, is why I inherited a good deal of love for the armed forces of the United States, who have been carrying on this war so magnificently.
Sentence 10: The war is not in Kingston and Hyde Park physically.
Sentence 11: It is across the oceans.
Sentence 12: But it means the preservation of our homes in Hyde Park and in Kingston.
Sentence 13: The people are beginning to realize more and more that we are fighting for the defense of America.
Sentence 14: I think we are doing a pretty good job of it.
Sentence 15: It takes me longer to go from Hyde Park to Kingston because you have taken off the ferry.
Sentence 16: I was complaining to the Mayor about it, and I think probably the only other thing to do is to build a bridge.
Sentence 17: Well, it has been good to see you on this occasion.
Sentence 18: I think it is a bigger crowd than it has ever been before.
Sentence 19: And I hope that in the next four years when I come back for an occasional weekend at home from Washington I will be able to come over here and see you all.
Sentence 20: In the meantime, I have heard of the great things you are doing in the war.
Sentence 21: Your Mayor was telling me the wonderful figures, the percentage of your boys that are in the armed forces.
Sentence 22: And I want to congratulate you also on what you are doing for the Navy in the two yards, one of which I happened to start twenty-five years ago.
Sentence 23: So, keep up the good work, and good luck to you all.
Goodbye.
