Sentence 1: 1944 Remarks Springfield Massachusetts

I had hoped to be able to motor up here from Hartford, but I thought to myself that the gasoline would be of more use in a tank in Germany than in my car.
Sentence 2: Somebody tells me that there is a political campaign on.
Sentence 3: I think we all agree that it is probably one of the important political campaigns in our history.
Sentence 4: But—here in Springfield—I cannot refrain from suggesting that there is also a war on- a war which, I very deeply believe, will decide the fate of our America and of the whole human race for generations to come.
Sentence 5: You good people here in Springfield know a great deal about war.
Sentence 6: You have known about munitions for years, since long before I was born.
Sentence 7: You know about our preparedness, and you knew about it long before Pearl Harbor.
Sentence 8: This city—located on one of the most beautiful rivers in the United States—it isn't quite so refined as the Hudson—this city has always been the center of experimentation and production of the weapons of defense against aggression.
Sentence 9: The Springfield rifle—the Garand rifle—they have proved themselves, in one battle after another, essential weapons of war.
Sentence 10: Here in Springfield, great history has been made.
Sentence 11: As your President during these eventful years, I am proud to be here and proud to be looking into the faces of all of you who did so much for America, and for the cause of civilization.
Sentence 12: And also, I might add, because I have known publishers for a great many years- this city is the home of a great newspaper.
Sentence 13: And I wish that we had more papers throughout the Nation like the Springfield Republican.
Sentence 14: It has been four years—four eventful, stirring years- since you people gave me the last mandate in an election.
Sentence 15: And here I am, back again.
Sentence 16: For many American homes they have been years of personal heartbreak and tragedy, about which any words that I could say would be idle.
Sentence 17: Yet, even for them- I would say, for them above all others there is the proud sense that America has come greatly through a dark and dangerous time.
Sentence 18: The ship of state is sturdy and safe, and with continued courage and wisdom we can bring it into a harbor where it will not be whipped by the storms of another war within any foreseeable period.
Sentence 19: But—we are going to remain prepared.
Sentence 20: I take it as a matter of wisdom that we should not dismantle the Springfield arsenals.
Sentence 21: This time we are not going to scuttle our strength.
Sentence 22: Four years ago many of us knew that this war might come.
Sentence 23: We sought to prepare America for it, often in the face of mocking gibes from those who said that we had nothing to fear from Germany or Japan.
Sentence 24: We went about the work of building the national defenses and of setting up a system of selective service.
Sentence 25: We had the stern resolve—that I expressed many times four years ago- that we meant this for defense and not for offense—and that we would not send our boys to fight abroad unless we were attacked.
Sentence 26: The attack came—treacherous, deadly attack.
Sentence 27: Our pledge was kept.
Sentence 28: We fought back when we were attacked—obviously, rightly.
Sentence 29: We fought back—as our forefathers had fought.
Sentence 30: We took the offensive—and we held it.
Sentence 31: The kind of America we inherited from our fathers is the kind of America we want to pass on to our children—but, an America more prosperous, more secure -free from want and free from fear.
Sentence 32: It was to save that America that we joined in a common war against economic breakdown and depression- and we won that war.
Sentence 33: It was to save that America that we joined in a common war against the Fascist ruthlessness and brutality of Germany and Japan.
Sentence 34: And we are winning that war.
Sentence 35: It is to save that America that our sons are fighting gloriously on battlefields all over the world.
Sentence 36: You and I have been through a lot together.
Sentence 37: And we are going to go ahead together- until we have finished this tremendous job of winning the war and building a strong, enduring peace.
Sentence 38: So, sometimes I really honestly do forget politics.
Sentence 39: Regardless of what happens on election day—I assure you that I shall be the same man you have known all these years-
Sentence 40: and I am still dedicated to the same ideals for which you and I and our sons have been fighting.
Sentence 41: I am very glad to have had this all too brief opportunity to be back here—I might almost say to chat with you.
Sentence 42: I am glad to be back here in Springfield now, and I am coming back again.
Sentence 43: And being half from New England myself—up the river here in Northampton—I have a hunch—as lots of people do in western Massachusetts and eastern New York—I have a hunch that I shall be back here again soon as President of the United States.
Sentence 44: In any case, as your President, I want to say to you—thank you for coming here.
Sentence 45: I have never spoken from here before—I think it's a pretty good spot.
Sentence 46: And thanks particularly for the magnificent job you have been doing in this city towards winning the war.
