Sentence 1: 1944 Remarks Bridgeport Connecticut
Sentence 2: This is not a formal campaign speech.
Sentence 3: It's just a visit from one neighbor to a lot of other neighbors, because, you know, from my place up on the Hudson River when I look east I can see into Connecticut, and it doesn't take me very much more than an hour to get down to Bridgeport from my house.
Sentence 4: So let me just tell you as a neighbor that I am glad to be back.
Sentence 5: This being war, though I am told not to mention that subject, I always remember back in 1917 or 1918 coming to Bridgeport when I was in the Navy Department, and seeing the building of ships, the manufacturing of munitions, guns, and bullets.
Sentence 6: And I remember very well the reputation that Bridgeport had in those days in the first war.
Sentence 7: And it has got the same reputation for a magnificent industrial effort and help to our troops in this war.
Sentence 8: I hope that, while we are alive, Bridgeport will never be called On again to make munitions in a world war.
Sentence 9: And it is interesting, at this time, for the first time since the days of Lincoln, that we are conducting a war and carrying on a presidential election at the same time.
Sentence 10: Some of us are trying to get excited about politics.
Sentence 11: Some of us become even rather agitated.
Sentence 12: You ought to know.
Sentence 13: Yes, there are a few politicians, even- men and women- who work themselves into such an emotional state that they say things I hope they will be sorry for before they die.
Sentence 14: There isn't very much that I can say, except to talk about the record.
Sentence 15: You know that.
Sentence 16: A lot of people don't like me to talk about the record.
Sentence 17: They don't like to be reminded that people have been taken care of by the Congress through the passage of all kinds of social legislation.
Sentence 18: When I talk about those things again, some people say, "Oh, why do they have to bring that subject up?"
Sentence 19: I think we have made a pretty good record in running this war, and they don't like that talked about either.
Sentence 20: They like to talk about some kind of a wild, weird future.
Sentence 21: Well, believe me, you see it and then you don't see it.
Sentence 22: One candidate says one thing and in another place, simultaneously, another candidate says another thing.
Sentence 23: I get tremendously amused by some of this—not all of it—because I wish in a way I were back in 1910, when I was running for the State Senate in the State of New York, and I had a particularly disagreeable opponent, and he called me names.
Sentence 24: Well, I wasn't anything in those days-
Sentence 25: I wasn't President—and I answered him in kind.
Sentence 26: And the names that I called him were worse than the names that he called me.
Sentence 27: So we had a very joyous campaign.
Sentence 28: In this campaign, of course, all things taken together, I can't talk about my opponent the way I would like to sometimes, because I try to think that I am a Christian.
Sentence 29: I try to think that some day I will go to Heaven, and I don't believe there is anything to be gained in saying dreadful things about other people in any campaign.
Sentence 30: After next Tuesday there are going to be a lot of sorry people in the United States.
Sentence 31: I want to say, looking into the future, that I hope some of my good friends who happen to be running for office—your candidate for Governor—your candidate for the Senate—both of them old friends of mine—will be elected; and I hope, too, that very soon after the first of January, Mrs. Roosevelt and I will have a call- in the White House—from the charming lady, Miss Connors
Sentence 32: [candidate for Congress against Clare Boothe Luce], on my right.
So it's good to see you all, and I'll be back some day, very soon I hope, as President.
Sentence 33: Thanks.
