Sentence 1: 1944 Excerpts From The Press Conference 0

Q.
Sentence 2: Mr. President, Chairman Doughton of the House Ways and Means Committee said today on the floor that there was a good deal of unnecessary excitement about the postwar unemployment problem, that we can meet that problem when it arises.
Sentence 3: Do you feel that generally reflects Administration policy?
Sentence 4: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 5: Well, I would have to have the whole thing before I can comment.
Sentence 6: But I can say this about it, because he may have said other things too, which might not be fair for me to make any comment on just that one thing.
Sentence 7: What I felt all along is that, in a sense, the word reemployment is the wrong emphasis to put on the whole subject.
Sentence 8: Just the same way, the word reconversion involves the wrong emphasis.
Sentence 9: Well, I know quite a number of people who are in the armed forces, and a number of people who are not in the armed forces, who don't really understand what reconversion means.
Sentence 10: It isn't a simple word.
Sentence 11: There's a much simpler way of putting it: that what we require is employment, not talking about not wanting unemployment.
Sentence 12: I say we do want employment.
Sentence 13: It's just a fine distinction of emphasis.
Sentence 14: Now, that's the simplest English to put it in.
Sentence 15: We do not want to have problems of unemployment.
Sentence 16: There are a lot of things that we are paying a great deal of attention to—jobs.
Sentence 17: Jobs—that's even simpler than employment.
Sentence 18: It's a good old Anglo-Saxon word, which I like. . . .
Sentence 19: Then, next thing I have, I was seriously in doubt.
Sentence 20: Steve
Sentence 21: [Early] almost had a fit that I would make another nonpolitical speech.
Sentence 22: (Laughter)
Sentence 23: And I thought of making a .speech on a subject that is very close to my heart, because I will make a little money on it—you see how close to my heart it is—this is a dissertation to the public on the planting and the raising and the selling of Christmas trees.
Sentence 24: I really thought of making a radio speech on that, and then having somebody say that it was on a political subject and demanding equal time on the air.
Sentence 25: (Laughter)
That would create another controversy, and probably people would want to see my books to prove that I do make money raising Christmas trees; there would be an investigation to prove that I do take a lot of time.
Sentence 26: I have some very, very carefully kept books on the subject of Christmas trees—a thing called a check-book.
Sentence 27: And I pay for the labor of planting these little trees at the age of four years and about six inches high, and I pay a man about once every two years to go through and keep the briars out of them; and then I pay several people—some of them schoolboys- to go in and cut them off.
Sentence 28: And then the next entry is on the other side of the checkbook.
Sentence 29: Along comes a department store or chain store with a truck, and they themselves load these little trees—this is ten years after the planting— into the truck.
Sentence 30: They take them down to New York, and sell the trees—at a profit.
Sentence 31: They get a good profit.
Sentence 32: And then they send me a check for the little trees, which is recorded in the stub of the check-book on the other side.
Sentence 33: I think there probably should be an investigating committee.
Sentence 34: I will be glad to show them my check-book.
Sentence 35: No particular secret in it.
Sentence 36: I thought trees a very good topic for a political talk.
Sentence 37: And then we would have another discussion, as to whether it was political or wasn't political, so you might say joy would be had by all.
Sentence 38: But I am going to make a political speech.
Sentence 39: You might just as well know about it.
Sentence 40: (Laughter)
Sentence 41: I don't think it will be very political.
Sentence 42: Of course, it will seem so.
Sentence 43: It won't be.
Sentence 44: But it will have a tinge, and just because it will have a tinge, I don't see why it shouldn't be called a political speech.
Sentence 45: And the time on the air will be paid for by the Democratic National Committee.
Sentence 46: Dan Tobin
Sentence 47: [President of the Teamsters' Union], on the 23rd of September, is having a group at a hotel in Washington for supper, and because it will undoubtedly leak through the press or the radio within a day or so, I might just as well say it now.
Sentence 48: It won't be very political, but we will call it my first political address of the campaign.
Sentence 49: And you will all be frightfully disappointed.
Sentence 50: The evening of the 23rd at, I think, the Statler Hotel in Washington.
Sentence 51: It's the meeting of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America.
Sentence 52: So the cat's out of the bag.
Sentence 53: (Laughter) . .
Sentence 54: .
Sentence 55: Q. Mr. President, if we might go to the Dumbarton Oaks statement this morning, you said that you saw the statement last night.
Sentence 56: There were two statements issued, one a joint statement in behalf of all three delegates, the other a separate statement in the name of Mr. Stettinius.
Sentence 57: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 58: Well, I couldn't tell you about that particular detail, because what I saw was all in one.
Sentence 59: They probably decided to separate them, but they were both in one document.
Sentence 60: Q. Mr. President, there was one document on which the three chief delegates had agreed on the general outline for a world security organization which resembled very much your draft of June 15.
Sentence 61: Would you care to comment on the differences between the two?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 62: My draft of June 15?
Sentence 63: My goodness, was it that far ahead?
Sentence 64: What was my draft?
Sentence 65: Q. Mr. Stettinius this morning said it was June 15.
Sentence 66: Q.
Sentence 67: Your summary of the international security plan.
Sentence 68: THE PRESIDENT: Oh.
Sentence 69: To tell you the honest truth, I had forgotten I had done it.
Sentence 70: Don't say I am claiming authorship, because I haven't compared them.
Sentence 71: I have had an idea, not since June but way back for a year and a half, on certain general principles.
Sentence 72: It would be different from the League of Nations, I thought a great deal more workable than the League of Nations, calling for two bodies.
Sentence 73: On one, membership would be for every Nation—large and small—a little Nation to have just as good a vote as a big Nation.
Sentence 74: Second, there would be a much smaller working body, talking about terms—I called it council, and that would be aimed primarily at averting a future war, that would be the main function.
Sentence 75: Then third, there would be some system of a court, or courts, for the judicial determination of disputes between Nations.
Sentence 76: Well, I think we all want to put the future peace of the world and the settlement of disputes, working out all kinds of things, like food problems and financial problems and everything else, onto a non-partisan basis.
Sentence 77: Well, you all got that.
Sentence 78: I don't remember doing it, but anyway, back in June I had the same idea I had for a year and a half before, and a lot of other people have done it.
Sentence 79: It's like back in 1933, when I sent a message to Congress about the Civilian Conservation Corps camps, and they authorized them.
Sentence 80: And we started the C.C.C. camps.
Sentence 81: Well, it was something I had been thinking about a great deal, and I had, as a result- after they got going, after everybody liked them—I didn't claim authorship of them, but I did send a message to Congress—I had, I suppose, seven or eight letters from people who said, "I wrote you in nineteen hundred and twenty-nine that we ought to have some kind of camps," or "I wrote you in 1930 and outlined the whole plan.
Sentence 82: Will you please give me credit for the idea."
Sentence 83: Well, I suppose there were five hundred people that have brought the idea of C.C.C. camps to my mind.
Sentence 84: I merely happened to be in a position where I could properly recommend it to Congress.
Sentence 85: Now, on this idea of the relationships between Nations after the war, credit should not go to any one person.
Sentence 86: People have been talking about it, and I have been talking about it on and off the stump since 1919.
Sentence 87: I was for the League of Nations.
Sentence 88: I did all I could to get it.
Sentence 89: I wasn't the author of it.
Sentence 90: Now, on this plan that they are talking about at Dumbarton Oaks, nobody is the author of it.
Sentence 91: It's a general idea, and they are putting it down on paper in such form that all the Nations of the world can talk it over before they all express their views in a meeting.
Sentence 92: Nothing is hard and fast.
Sentence 93: This is the very first step.
Sentence 94: And it is obvious they have got to have some kind of an organization-might be called judicial, that is the first step.
Sentence 95: When they get to that stage, they will take it before a judicial body.
Sentence 96: If that doesn't work, the next step is to have some kind of meeting place where they will talk it over.
Sentence 97: Call it the assembly, for want of a better term.
Sentence 98: I will take a better term if anybody will suggest it.
Sentence 99: And if anybody starts to kick over the traces and violates the frontiers of a neighbor country, you have got to have quick action, got to have quick action by some small body, because the time in that case, when you start bombing somebody or invading them, you can't have a man—call him whatever you will—send out notices that there will be a meeting next month on this subject.
Sentence 100: Next month might be too late.
Sentence 101: You have got to have a small body that can act quickly for all the other Nations.
Sentence 102: There are various ways of talking about that.
Sentence 103: That is why this preliminary conference is being held at Dumbarton Oaks.
Sentence 104: They are not making final decisions, they are going to make recommendations to all the United Nations of the world.
Sentence 105: Well, that's the common sense point of view of what the differences are about, including the political aspects.
Sentence 106: Q. Well, Mr. President, you said it was your idea that this body should be different from the League of Nations and more workable.
Sentence 107: In what way is it going to be different?
Sentence 108: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 109: Well, there again I think that you all have to get out the League of Nations and read the Covenant, and you would find that it was very, very different insofar as this body has gone.
Sentence 110: The League of Nations had no means within the Covenant of taking up all kinds of questions like things we have discussed already: international food, for example.
Sentence 111: They had no financial organization for world finances.
Sentence 112: This one would.
Sentence 113: They had no method by which a council could enforce peace in the world.
Sentence 114: This one would.
Sentence 115: And so if I were to sit down and go over it, I could find fifty different reasons why the two things are different. . . .
Sentence 116: Q.
Sentence 117: Another point in which there has been a great deal of interest in Washington is what mechanisms you might favor to translate decisions of the council into forceful sanctions on the part of the United States.
Sentence 118: Would there be reference to the American Congress, sir?
Sentence 119: THE PRESIDENT: I don't think we have got nearly as far as that yet.
Sentence 120: I think, again, we are emphasizing the details, not the great object.
Sentence 121: We are very apt to forget the great object.
Sentence 122: And a very good illustration is this.
Sentence 123: In 1920 I was addressing a very big meeting out of doors up in Michigan—an out of doors meeting, there must have been fifteen or twenty thousand people—and I got to talking about the League.
Sentence 124: And some woman got up and said, "I can't be for the League of Nations, it legalizes white slavery."
Sentence 125: (Laughter)
I said, "Where?"
Sentence 126: So she trotted out article something, which authorized the League to set up machinery—the objective was perfectly clear—to put down white slavery by international agreement.
Sentence 127: And she construed it, because it did not say "put down"—it used the word which meant to work together, to eliminate—I have forgotten what the word was, you can dig it out—but she assumed that it meant to regulate white slavery, and therefore to approve white slavery.
Sentence 128: Well, I had a violent discussion with her, and we both left the meeting thoroughly angry.
Sentence 129: Now that's what comes of bringing politics or partisanship, or-
Sentence 130: well, the old word I had used before: picayune—by the way, I found George Washington used that word(laughter) —of bringing carping discussions into the details of a thing like white slavery, or any other current thing.
Sentence 131: Now, I don't know how they are going to word anything in regard to the elimination of war, but stepping on it before it grows up.
Sentence 132: We all know what we mean.
Sentence 133: I can't give you the details of it, but we are at one—almost—in this country, in wanting to end future wars by stepping on their necks before they grow up.
Sentence 134: Now that's plain English.
Sentence 135: For details, go to a political rally ....
