Sentence 1: 1945
Sentence 2: The Presidents News Conference 496

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 3: I have a release for you this morning which is being handed to you in the form of three documents.
Sentence 4: The release date is 1 o'clock today.
Sentence 5: [Reading] I have here reports on the Pearl Harbor disaster.
Sentence 6: One is from the Army and one is from the Navy.
Sentence 7: The Navy report gives a "Finding of Facts" by a Navy Court of Inquiry.
Sentence 8: Attached to this Finding of Facts are indorsements by the Judge Advocate General of the Navy, Rear Admiral T. L. Gatch; Admiral E. J. King, Chief of Naval Operations, and the Secretary of the Navy.
Sentence 9: You will find a summation of the findings in the final indorsement by the Secretary of the Navy at the end of the document.
Sentence 10: From the Army we have the report of the Army Pearl Harbor Board and, bound separately, a statement by the Secretary of War.
Sentence 11: Certain criticisms of the Chief of Staff, General Marshall, appear in the report of the Army Pearl Harbor Board.
Sentence 12: You will notice in the Secretary's statement, beginning on page nineteen, that he takes sharp issue with this criticism of General Marshall, stating that the criticism "is entirely unjustified."
Sentence 13: The conclusion of the Secretary of War is that General Marshall acted throughout this matter with his usual "great skill, energy and efficiency."
Sentence 14: I associate myself wholeheartedly with this expression by the Secretary of War.
Sentence 15: Indeed I have the fullest confidence in the skill, energy and efficiency of all our war leaders, both Army and Navy.
Sentence 16: [Ends reading]
Now, these documents will be given to you.
Sentence 17: There is a lot of reading matter in them, and you have 2 hours to look them over before the release date comes.
Sentence 18: Any questions?
Q. Yes; can you give us a 30-word lead?
Sentence 19: [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 20: I could give you a 300-word lead.
Sentence 21: [Laughter]
Q. Are your remarks quotable--on the record?
Sentence 22: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 23: My remarks are on the record.
Sentence 24: We can have a copy of my statement prepared for you.
Sentence 25: It is on the record.
Sentence 26: Q.
Sentence 27: We have until 1 o'clock to--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 28: You have until 1 o'clock to study these documents, and you can consult Mr. Ross and anybody else you wish to consult.
Sentence 29: Q. Is what you are trying to clear up, sir, also for 1 o'clock release?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 30: They are all for 1 o'clock release; everything in connection with it is for 1 o'clock release.
Sentence 31: That is to give you time to look these things over so you won't have to go off half-cocked.
Sentence 32: Q.
Sentence 33: I suppose the documents are pretty well self-explanatory?
Sentence 34: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 35: They are.
Sentence 36: Q.
Sentence 37: Do they present any action?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 38: They state the facts so that there won't be any more argument about what the facts are.
Sentence 39: Q.
Sentence 40: What is the status on the court-martial matter?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 41: I have nothing to say on the court-martial, except that if a court-martial is necessary, the gentlemen will have a prompt and fair trial.
Sentence 42: Q. Mr. President, can you tell us something about the circumstances surrounding the decision to make this public at this time?
Sentence 43: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 44: Well, there has been a great deal of conversation in regard to Pearl Harbor and various boards have looked into the facts, and I just decided that the country is entitled to the facts.
Sentence 45: There is nothing there that needs to be covered up now that hostilities have ceased, and I think the sooner the press and the public know the facts the better off everybody will be.
Sentence 46: Any other questions?
Q.
Sentence 47: We still have a press conference tomorrow?
Sentence 48: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 49: We still have a press conference tomorrow, so you can cross-question me then on these documents if you care to.
Sentence 50: [Laughter]
