Sentence 1: 1945 Inaugural Address 6

Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Vice President, my friends:
Sentence 2: You will understand and, I believe, agree with my wish that the form of this inauguration be simple and its words brief.
Sentence 3: We Americans of today, together with our allies, are passing through a period of supreme test.
Sentence 4: It is a test of our courage —of our resolve—of our wisdom—of our essential democracy.
Sentence 5: If we meet that test—successfully and honorably—we shall perform a service of historic importance which men and women and children will honor throughout all time.
Sentence 6: As I stand here today, having taken the solemn oath of office in the presence of my fellow countrymen—in the presence of our God—I know that it is America's purpose that we shall not fail.
Sentence 7: In the days and the years that are to come, we shall work for a just and honorable peace, a durable peace, as today we work and fight for total victory in war.
Sentence 8: We can and we will achieve such a peace.
Sentence 9: We shall strive for perfection.
Sentence 10: We shall not achieve it immediately-but we still shall strive.
Sentence 11: We may make mistakes—but they must never be mistakes which result from faintness of 'heart or abandonment of moral principle.
Sentence 12: I remember that my old schoolmaster, Dr. Peabody, said-in days that seemed to us then to be secure and untroubled, "Things in life will not always run smoothly.
Sentence 13: Sometimes we will be rising toward the heights—then all will seem to reverse itself and start downward.
Sentence 14: The great fact to remember is that the trend of civilization itself is forever upward; that a line drawn through the middle of the peaks and the valleys of the centuries always has an upward trend.
Sentence 15: "
Our Constitution of 1787 was not a perfect instrument; it is not perfect yet.
Sentence 16: But it provided a firm base upon which all manner of men, of all races and colors and creeds, could build our solid structure of democracy.
Sentence 17: Today, in this year of war, 1945, we have learned lessons-at a fearful cost—and we shall profit by them.
Sentence 18: We have learned that we cannot live alone, at peace; that our own well-being is dependent on the well-being of other Nations, far away.
Sentence 19: We have learned that we must live as men and not as ostriches, nor as dogs in the manger.
Sentence 20: We have learned to be citizens of the world, members of the human community.
Sentence 21: We have learned the simple truth, as Emerson said, that, "The only way to have a friend is to be one.
Sentence 22: "
We can gain no lasting peace if we approach it with suspicion and mistrust—or with fear.
Sentence 23: We can gain it only if we proceed with the understanding and the confidence and the courage which flow from conviction.
Sentence 24: The Almighty God has blessed our land in many ways.
Sentence 25: He has given our people stout hearts and strong arms with which to strike mighty blows for freedom and truth.
Sentence 26: He has given to our country a faith which has become the hope of all peoples in an anguished world.
Sentence 27: So we pray to Him now for the vision to see our way clearly to see the way that leads to a better life for ourselves and for all our fellow men—and to the achievement of His will to peace on earth.
