Sentence 1: 1945
Sentence 2: The Presidents News Conference 412

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 3: [1.]
Sentence 4: I am sending down Edward C. Moran, Jr., former Congressman from Maine, as Second Assistant Secretary of Labor, at the request of the Secretary of Labor.
Sentence 5: I am sending down Jesse M. Donaldson to be First Assistant Postmaster General, at the request of the Postmaster General.
Sentence 6: Q. Where is he from, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 7: Donaldson has been--I don't know where he is from.
Sentence 8: He has been with the Department all his life.
Sentence 9: Q.
Sentence 10: That is First Assistant Postmaster General?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 11: First Assistant Postmaster General.
Sentence 12: I have his record out there, which I will read to you, if you like.
Sentence 13: [2.]
Sentence 14: I have a letter from the Secretary of the Treasury
1
[reading]: "When Franklin D. Roosevelt came to Washington, he asked me to come with him, stating that when he was through we would go back to Dutchess County together.
Sentence 15: For 12 of the most eventful years in American history, I was associated with him, actively participating in meeting the important problems confronting the country both before and during the war.
Sentence 16: 1
Henry Morgenthau, Jr.
"Immediately after President Roosevelt's death, I told you how I felt, and stated that I wanted you to know that your hands were untied as far as I was concerned.
Sentence 17: You were good enough to say that you needed my help and urged me to remain.
Sentence 18: "Since then, with your support, I have completed many of the most urgent tasks that were then pending.
Sentence 19: As I told you this morning, I feel the time has now come when I can appropriately be released from my responsibilities.
Sentence 20: Accordingly, I now tender my resignation as Secretary of the Treasury.
Sentence 21: My preference was to have this resignation effective immediately, but since you stated this morning that you wish me to remain until you return from Europe I will, of course, comply with your wishes.
Sentence 22: "Permit me to express my appreciation of the fine support you have given me since you became President.
Sentence 23: "I most fervently hope for the great success of your Administration in solving the difficult problems which lie ahead.
Sentence 24: "If you wish to consult me at any time, I shall always be at your service."
Sentence 25: [3.]
Sentence 26: And I wrote him [reading] : "Dear Henry: I am indeed sorry to learn that you have come to the conclusion that the time has arrived to be released from your responsibilities as Secretary of the Treasury.
Sentence 27: I am grateful, however, that you are willing to remain until I return from Europe so as to carry on the arduous work of the Treasury during my absence.
Sentence 28: "Yours has been a very long and efficient service to our country-both in peace and in war; and your departure from the Treasury will be a distinct loss.
Sentence 29: "Your service to the nation began in 1933 in the days when you supervised the merger of the farm credit agencies into the Farm Credit Administration which has done so much to help the farmers of the nation.
Sentence 30: "Since you have been in the Treasury you have participated in formulating and administering a federal tax program which has raised unprecedented tax revenues with a minimum of disturbance to our economy.
Sentence 31: These tax laws have seen an impartial and efficient administration under your supervision.
Sentence 32: "Under your supervision the Treasury through the sale of bonds has raised over two hundred billion dollars with which to finance our defense and war activities.
Sentence 33: Raising this money was in itself a great achievement; but, in addition, it was accompanied by a substantial reduction in the average rate of interest on the public debt.
Sentence 34: "You have been a steady champion of international monetary stabilization ever since the early days of your administration as Secretary of the Treasury.
Sentence 35: Through many years of activity and accomplishment in this field, your efforts are now bearing final fruit in the Bretton Woods legislation now pending before the Congress of the United States.
Sentence 36: In this, and in other ways, you have helped bring about the close fiscal cooperation which this government has had with its Allies during this war.
Sentence 37: Besides, in the days before the Lend-Lease statute was enacted, many measures of cooperation with our Allies were formulated in your office.
Sentence 38: "I am sure that you must feel a great sense of accomplishment in this outstanding record of service to our country.
Sentence 39: On behalf of our people I extend to you the thanks of the nation.
Sentence 40: "I am appreciative of your offer of service in the future, and I am sure that there will be many occasions on which I shall seek your counsel."
Sentence 41: Q. May I interrupt you just there?
Sentence 42: Have you a successor in mind, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 43: I have a successor in mind, but he will not be announced until I get back from Europe.
Sentence 44: [4.]
Sentence 45: Now here is another letter from Chester Springs, Pennsylvania, dated June 30, 1945, addressed to the President [reading]: "As I have served as a member of the Supreme Court for more than fifteen years, and have attained the age of seventy years, I desire to avail myself of the provisions of Section 260 of the Judicial Code, as amended, (28 U.S. Code ยง 375),--"
Nobody but a Justice would write that.
Sentence 46: [Laughter]
"--and to resign my office as Associate Justice.
Sentence 47: "Accordingly, I tender you my resignation, to take effect July 31, 1945.
Sentence 48: "I am, Sir, with great respect, Sincerely yours, Owen J. Roberts"
Sentence 49: [5.]
Sentence 50: "Dear Mr. Justice: I am indeed sorry that you have decided to retire from the Bench after your long service.
Sentence 51: "The Supreme Court, in the period during which you have served as a member, has been called upon to pass upon some of the most important economic and social problems in the history of our country.
Sentence 52: "As I told you this afternoon when I saw you and finally agreed to accept your resignation as of July 31, 1945, I do so only on your promise to continue to give your country the benefit of your sound judgment and advice as occasion arises.
Sentence 53: "I extend to you the gratitude of the nation for the service you have rendered.
Sentence 54: "
Q. Mr. President, I notice he resigned.
Sentence 55: Is that something different from the retirement the other Justices have?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 56: I think he intended to retire.
Sentence 57: I think that is the sense under the statute he cites.
Sentence 58: I think he intends to retire from the bench.
Sentence 59: At least, that's how I took it.
Sentence 60: Q. Have you picked a successor to Justice Roberts yet, sir?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 61: I have not.
Sentence 62: I haven't thought about a successor.
Sentence 63: I am ready for questions now, if you have any.
Sentence 64: [6.]
Sentence 65: Q. Mr. President, can you tell us anything about the reported mission of Mayor La Guardia to France, before the Big Three conference?
Sentence 66: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 67: Well, Mayor La Guardia has been wanting to go to France for some time, and I gave him the necessary permission the other day to go to France.
Sentence 68: Q.
Sentence 69: Can you tell us--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 70: He is going on his--for his own welfare and benefit.
Sentence 71: He is not going on a mission for the Government.
Sentence 72: Q.
Sentence 73: He is not going in uniform, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 74: No.
Sentence 75: [Laughter]
Sentence 76: [7.]
Sentence 77: Q. Mr. President, there has been some talk on the Hill that the Bretton Woods legislation would be postponed until after the Charter.
Sentence 78: Do you think this could be done?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 79: I think you had best ask the leaders of the two Houses that question, because I don't think it's going to be delayed that way.
Sentence 80: At least, that is not my information.
Sentence 81: Q. Mr. President, is there any truth to the report that the Secretary of the Treasury will be appointed to the United Nations Bank as--that is, the American section?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 82: I am not ready to answer that question at this time.
Sentence 83: [8.]
Sentence 84: Q. Mr. President, do you plan to hold a Big Two meeting with Prime Minister Churchill before going to the Berlin meeting ?
Sentence 85: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 86: I do not.
Sentence 87: There is going to be a Big Three meeting, and all three will be there,--
Q. Mr. President,--
THE PRESIDENT.--if you want to call it that.
Sentence 88: [9.]
Sentence 89: Q. Out in Independence, we asked you about Secretary Morgenthau and Ickes, and at that time you said you did not have it in mind to accept their resignations.
Sentence 90: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 91: That is true.
Sentence 92: Q. I wondered whether--about Ickes now, Mr. President?
Sentence 93: [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 94: The same answer at Independence goes for Mr. Ickes, and went for Mr. Morgenthau until this morning when he came in and told me that he simply wanted to quit and would be willing to stay until I got back from Europe.
Sentence 95: That was his own suggestion and not mine.
Sentence 96: Q.
Sentence 97: You do not have in mind, now, accepting Mr. Ickes' resignation?
Sentence 98: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 99: No, I do not, for I am going to send Mr. Ickes to England to negotiate an oil treaty.
Sentence 100: Q.
Sentence 101: When is that, sir?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 102: They are getting ready for it now.
Sentence 103: I don't know just what the date will be.
Sentence 104: Q. Is that in relation to the Anglo-American oil agreement?
Sentence 105: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 106: Yes, that's the one.
Sentence 107: Q. Renegotiate?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 108: Renegotiate, that's the word.
Sentence 109: Q.
Sentence 110: They will be leaving relatively soon?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 111: Well, I don't think the date has been definitely set, but it will be some time in the near future.
Sentence 112: Q.
Sentence 113: That's the Middle East oil arrangement, sir?
Sentence 114: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 115: Yes.
Sentence 116: That's what it is.
Sentence 117: Q.
Sentence 118: Any other big Government changes?
Sentence 119: [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 120: I can't think of any, right at the present time, you would be interested to know.
Sentence 121: [More laughter]
Q. Mildly.
Sentence 122: Mildly interested.
Sentence 123: Q. Mr. President, can you give us the date of the Big Three meeting?
Sentence 124: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 125: Not definitely, no.
Sentence 126: It will be some time in the next 3 weeks, let us say that.
Sentence 127: Q.
Sentence 128: Any appointments anticipated, Mr. President, to the State Department-Secretaries--have you any of those in mind yet--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 129: No.
Q.--Under Secretaries, Assistants?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 130: You heard what Mr. Byrnes said yesterday in his statement, that he had no intention of making any changes immediately, and I think that will be a matter for discussion when we get back from overseas.
Sentence 131: [10.]
Sentence 132: Q. Mr. President, have you received the report from Stabilization Director Davis on speculation--curbs on speculation?
Sentence 133: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 134: No, I have not.
Sentence 135: I haven't received it yet.
Sentence 136: [11.]
Sentence 137: Q. Mr. President, could you tell us if, when you come back from Germany, you would like to see the Eiffel Tower again?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 138: Of course I would like to see it, but I don't think I will probably get a chance to see it.
Sentence 139: If that is what you want?
Sentence 140: [Laughter]
Q.
Sentence 141: Do you expect to see General de Gaulle?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 142: Not on this trip.
Sentence 143: Q. Do you contemplate making another trip, then, to Europe soon?
Sentence 144: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 145: I can't tell.
Sentence 146: I can't answer that.
Sentence 147: Q. Is there anything, Mr. President, you can tell us about your route on return?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 148: No, I can't at the present time, because it hasn't been definitely set.
Sentence 149: As soon as I have the information, I will give it to you.
Sentence 150: Reporter:
Sentence 151: Thank you, Mr. President.
Sentence 152: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 153: You are entirely welcome.
