Sentence 1: 1945 Address Broadcast The Armed Forces

To the Armed Forces of the United States throughout the world:
Sentence 2: After the tragic news of the death of our late Commander in Chief, it was my duty to speak promptly to the Congress, and the Armed Forces of the United States.
Sentence 3: Yesterday, I addressed the Congress.
Sentence 4: Now I speak to you.
Sentence 5: I am especially anxious to talk to you, for I know that all of you felt a tremendous shock, as we did at home, when our Commander in Chief fell.
Sentence 6: All of us have lost a great leader, a far-sighted statesman and a real friend of democracy.
Sentence 7: We have lost a hard-hitting chief and an old friend of the services.
Sentence 8: Our hearts are heavy.
Sentence 9: However, the cause which claimed Roosevelt, also claims us.
Sentence 10: He never faltered--nor will we!
Sentence 11: I have done, as you would do in the field when the Commander falls.
Sentence 12: My duties and responsibilities are clear.
Sentence 13: I have assumed them.
Sentence 14: These duties will be carried on in keeping with our American tradition.
Sentence 15: As a veteran of the first World War, I have seen death on the battlefield.
Sentence 16: When I fought in France with the 35th Division, I saw good officers and men fall, and be replaced.
Sentence 17: I know that this is also true of the officers and men of the other services, the Navy, the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, and the Merchant Marine.
Sentence 18: I know the strain, the mud, the misery, the utter weariness of the soldier in the field.
Sentence 19: And I know too his courage, his stamina, his faith in his comrades, his country, and himself.
Sentence 20: We are depending upon each and every one of you.
Sentence 21: Yesterday I said to the Congress and I repeat it now:
"Our debt to the heroic men and valiant women in the service of our country can never be repaid.
Sentence 22: They have earned our undying gratitude.
Sentence 23: America will never forget their sacrifices.
Sentence 24: Because of these sacrifices, the dawn of justice and freedom throughout the world slowly casts its gleam across the horizon.
Sentence 25: "
At this decisive hour in history, it is very difficult to express my feeling.
Sentence 26: Words will not convey what is in my heart.
Sentence 27: Yet, I recall the words of Lincoln, a man who had enough eloquence to speak for all America.
Sentence 28: To indicate my sentiments, and to describe my hope for the future, may I quote the immortal words of that great Commander in Chief:
"With malice toward none; with charity for all; with firmness in the right, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in; to bind up our nation's wounds; to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan--to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves, and with all nations."
