Sentence 1: 1945 Excerpts From The Press Conference 1

THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 2: I invited Prime Minister Mackenzie King of Canada, who has been here for the last few days, to come into our press conference today, explaining you would not question him, because the press conferences, as you all know, are just as much for my information from the press, as they are for the information of the press from myself, or any visitor who is here.
Sentence 3: But I did prepare a little statement.
Sentence 4: (Reading): "During the Canadian Prime Minister's visit to Washington, Mr. King and the President discussed questions of general international interest, as well as those more specifically concerned with the relations between the two countries; relations which are as firm and friendly as ever.
Sentence 5: "Among other things, a survey was made of questions arising out of the recent Crimea Conference and likely to arise at the forthcoming San Francisco Conference.
Sentence 6: They discussed in part the place which Canada will occupy in the new international organization.
Sentence 7: "The President and the Prime Minister also had an opportunity of discussing questions of international economic and trading policy which both their countries will have to face as soon as hostilities end.
Sentence 8: They agreed that the solution of these questions should be sought along bold and expansive lines, with a view to the removal of discriminations and the reduction of barriers to the exchange of goods between all countries.
Sentence 9: They recognized a common interest in working toward these objectives.
Sentence 10: "It was felt that the United States and Canada, with their long experience of friendly relations and their high degree of economic interdependence, should meet the new problems that peace will bring in the same spirit of cooperation with the other United Nations that has sustained their common war effort.
Sentence 11: "
I could go on for many paragraphs about that common interest, and the way we have handled the problems between the two sister Nations side by side in the past.
Sentence 12: Of course, Mr. King and I are very, very old friends- personal friends, as you know.
Sentence 13: But since he has been Prime Minister, we have developed that friendship into a practical way of handling common problems between the Dominion and the United States.
Sentence 14: And I think those various things that have come up between us- they have already received names, the Ogdensburg agreement, Hyde Park agreement—I think that relations between Canada and the United States in the past ten years have been an outstanding example of what you can do by common consultation and by laying one's own problems before the other fellow.
Sentence 15: It is an outstanding example of that spirit with which two countries that are neighbors and cousins, you might say, can get along, to their mutual benefit.
Sentence 16: Q. Mr. President, did the St. Lawrence come up in your discussions?
Sentence 17: THE PRESIDENT: No, no.
Sentence 18: Q. Is there a disposition to forget about that, for the time being?
Sentence 19: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 20: No.
Sentence 21: Oh, no.
Sentence 22: Q.
Sentence 23: I had understood that that agreement which was presented last time was going to be allowed to go by the board for a while?
Sentence 24: THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 25: No.
Sentence 26: We didn't discuss it.
Sentence 27: We have the same point of view, I think, Mr. King and I, that the St. Lawrence is a very great natural and national asset to both Nations; and the time is going to come- the quicker the better when it is developed for the mutual good of the two Nations.
Sentence 28: Buffalo papers please copy.
Sentence 29: (Laughter)
Sentence 30: Q. Mr. President, on the basis of your discussions with the delegates this morning, and with the Prime Minister, can you give us anything that might be helpful to us in connection with the questions which you expect to arise at San Francisco?
Sentence 31: THE PRESIDENT: We didn't talk about those questions at all this morning.
Sentence 32: We were talking about the physical arrangements entirely.
Sentence 33: And I think that they are planning, in general, to follow the methods that were used at the Mexico Conference, which seem to be pretty satisfactory.
Sentence 34: And the Conference will be open to the press and the radio- movies and stills.
Sentence 35: Q. Mr. President, there has been some confusion as to how the freedom of action which is granted the individual American delegates is going to resolve into a common American viewpoint out at San Francisco, specifically the freedom of action about which Mr. Vandenberg has talked.
Sentence 36: Was that matter discussed here this morning?
Sentence 37: THE PRESIDENT: No, no.
Sentence 38: Q. Could you tell us how they are going to resolve into an American viewpoint?
Sentence 39: Will it be a unit rule, or—
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing)
Sentence 40: I—I don't honestly know.
Sentence 41: I don't think the question has come up.
Sentence 42: Stettinius hasn't said anything about it.
Sentence 43: Q. Mr. President, have you decided when you are going to San Francisco, to open the San Francisco Conference or go at the —
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) I asked for advice on that this morning.
Sentence 44: Either the beginning or end.
Sentence 45: Q. (interposing) Mr. President—
THE PRESIDENT: (continuing) I expect to hear.
Sentence 46: Q. (continuing)—do you know whether General O'Dwyer is going to run for Mayor?
Sentence 47: Did you and he discuss-
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) No.
Q. (continuing)- his plans?
THE PRESIDENT: (continuing) No —just what I read in the paper.
Sentence 48: Q. Was that what you read in the paper, that you were going to support him against Mayor LaGuardia?
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 49: No.
Sentence 50: One paper was right and one was wrong.
Sentence 51: I only read it in two papers.
Sentence 52: Q.
Sentence 53: Which paper was right?
Sentence 54: (Laughter)
Sentence 55: Q. Mr. President, there has been a good deal of speculation as to what the position of the various members of the Big Three was on the voting procedure question.
Sentence 56: Could you clarify for us, to any extent, whether this final decision was or was not a victory for any participating Nation, or —
THE PRESIDENT: (interposing) That, of course, is the trouble with answering the question at all.
Sentence 57: People will line up and say that is a victory for Mr. Stalin, or for Mr. Churchill, or for me.
Sentence 58: I should say it was a common agreement.
Sentence 59: Well, that means that it wasn't a victory for anybody, because they were all agreed.
Sentence 60: Honestly agreed as being what—what we all thought it was the best thing to do.
Sentence 61: In history, the question of who proposed it first is the smallest end of it.
Sentence 62: If anybody has a better idea, we would be glad to consider it.
Sentence 63: Q. Mr. President, is it true that under the Yalta agreement on voting procedure two of the Big Powers have the power to overrule discussions on any proposal that might be brought up, not only force but anything else?
Sentence 64: THE PRESIDENT: As I remember the thing—the easiest way of putting it- on everything that is procedural, not the actual use of force, you have to have a majority of eleven.
Sentence 65: Q.
Sentence 66: Any seven, or do they have to have a certain number of the Big Powers?
Sentence 67: THE PRESIDENT: No.
Sentence 68: In other words, you can look into things, into anything you want, and go through all the preliminary procedures by a majority vote.
Sentence 69: You don't have to have unanimity at all—the majority vote of the eleven.
Sentence 70: When it comes to the use of power or sanctions, that requires a unanimous vote of the five larger Nations. . .
Sentence 71: .
Sentence 72: Q. Mr. President, would you care to commit yourself on the subject of night baseball?
Sentence 73: (Laughter)
THE PRESIDENT:
Sentence 74: Well, I am one of the fathers of night baseball, as you know, and I am all in favor of baseball so long as you don't use perfectly healthy people that could be doing more useful work in the war.
Sentence 75: I consider baseball a very good thing for the population during the war.
Sentence 76: Q. Do you think within that definition, Mr. President, it would be possible for the big leagues to operate this year?
Sentence 77: THE PRESIDENT: Why not?
Sentence 78: It may not be quite as good a team, but I would go out to see a baseball game played by a sandlot team—and so would most people. . . .
