Sentence 1: 1945
Sentence 2: The Presidents News Conference 380

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 3: I am very sure that the first thing you are principally interested in is the free press in Germany.
Sentence 4: I would like to read a little statement here, and if you want to ask me some questions about it, I will try to answer them.
Sentence 5: Q. Will you read slowly, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 6: I will read it very slowly.
Sentence 7: [1.]
Sentence 8: "General Eisenhower has advised me that he has issued no policy or order dealing with the importation of publications into Germany.
Sentence 9: The General has expressed the personal opinion that a free press and a free flow of information and ideas should prevail in Germany in a manner consistent with military security.
Sentence 10: "General Eisenhower has emphasized, however, that there can be no restoration of a free German press in Germany until the elimination of Nazi and militarist influence has been completed.
Sentence 11: We are not going to lose the peace by giving license to racialist Pan-Germans, Nazis and militarists, so that they can misuse democratic rights in order to attack Democracy as Hitler did.
Sentence 12: "
Now I agree with General Eisenhower on that.
Sentence 13: And if you want to ask me some questions, why fire away.
Sentence 14: Q. Mr. President, is that any reversal of the position taken last week by--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 15: Yes, it is.
Sentence 16: Q.--Elmer Davis?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 17: Yes, it is.
Sentence 18: Mr. Davis was in Europe, in conference with SHAEF on the lower level, and Mr. Davis thought he had reached a policy with them on this.
Sentence 19: After that was released, I got in touch with General Eisenhower himself, and he informed me of just what I told you.
Sentence 20: Mr. Davis acted in good faith.
Sentence 21: Mr. Davis thought he was outlining the policy which had been agreed on.
Sentence 22: Apparently, from General Eisenhower's statement, there had been no policy agreed on, and it has not yet been agreed on.
Sentence 23: But as you see, General Eisenhower is for a free press in Germany, when the time arrives to give it to them.
Sentence 24: Mr. Davis was acting in good faith, be sure and get that.
Sentence 25: [2.]
Sentence 26: Q. Mr. President, speaking of the military situation, as mentioned in the statement, have you decided what our position is going to be on the handling of the German general staff, and the militarist influences in Germany ?
Sentence 27: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 28: No, I haven't.
Sentence 29: That is in the hands of Mr. Jackson-Mr. Justice Jackson, I should say.
Sentence 30: [3.]
Sentence 31: Q. Mr. President, at your first press conference you said you would give us your views on the repeal of the Johnson Act.
Sentence 32: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 33: On that repeal, I will read you a statement of President Roosevelt's as to why it is necessary, if you like.
Sentence 34: "At present, our foreign investment programs--" this is direct quotes from the statement issued by President Roosevelt--
"At present our foreign investment programs are impeded by legislation which restricts loans to those countries which are in default on loans arising out of the First World War.
Sentence 35: For both the International Bank and the Export-Import Bank to operate effectively, as well as to achieve an adequate flow of private investment, it is essential that these restrictions be removed.
Sentence 36: "
That is just as true as it can be.
Sentence 37: I never was for the Johnson Act in the first place.
Sentence 38: Q. Mr. President, is that his Message to Congress--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 39: I think this--let's see--yes, in the Budget Message to Congress of January 3, 1945--just the recent Budget Message, the one which we are in now.
Sentence 40: [4.]
Sentence 41: Q. Do you plan any early meeting with either Prime Minister Churchill and/or Marshal Stalin?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 42: Well, Mr. Eden was in to see me yesterday to discuss that question and our hope that there will be a possibility for the three of us to meet and discuss the coming peace program around the table.
Sentence 43: I can't say anything about the date, or how soon that will be.
Sentence 44: It depends on business right here.
Sentence 45: As you know, I am a very busy person.
Sentence 46: Q. Mr. President, is it possible that General de Gaulle might be included in this meeting?
Sentence 47: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 48: The Big Three will have the meeting.
Sentence 49: Q. Is there any possibility that may be at San Francisco, before the present thing breaks up?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 50: No, there isn't any possibility of its being at San Francisco.
Sentence 51: Q. Did you say the Big Three will have the meeting?
Sentence 52: In other words, there will be a meeting?
Sentence 53: It's just the--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 54: I hope so.
Sentence 55: I am not saying there will be a meeting.
Sentence 56: I am saying I hope there will be one.
Sentence 57: Q. Mr. President, I am not trying to pin you down on the time element, but are you looking into it in terms of soon ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 58: Well, it won't be in the very distant future.
Sentence 59: It won't be immediately.
Sentence 60: [Laughter]
Sentence 61: [5.]
Sentence 62: Q. Mr. President, can you tell us yet when you will have your press conference on taxes?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 63: No, I can't.
Sentence 64: We are still working on that, and we will have one very shortly.
Sentence 65: Q. Did you see Senator George's statement this morning?
Sentence 66: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 67: Yes, I saw Senator George's statement--not this morning, I saw the other the other day--I didn't see the one this morning.
Sentence 68: Q.
Sentence 69: He was foreseeing a 5-year plan for gradual reduction of taxes until they reached the prewar level.
Sentence 70: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 71: Well, I want it distinctly understood that there can be no reduction in taxes until the war is over.
Sentence 72: I want that thoroughly understood.
Sentence 73: There is no possible way to reduce taxes until this war is over, and we still have a war to win in the Pacific.
Sentence 74: So you can talk about taxes all you want to, but we have got to meet obligations to make the United States of America good, and you can only make them good by taxation.
Sentence 75: And every man in this country is a partner in the Government of the United States.
Sentence 76: There are 85 million individual bondholders in the United States, and they must be protected; and in order to protect them, you have got to collect the money to make those bonds good.
Sentence 77: And that has to be done by taxes.
Sentence 78: And you can do it no other way.
Sentence 79: Does that answer your question?
Sentence 80: [Laughter]
Sentence 81: [6.]
Sentence 82: Q. Mr. President, there is a report that you were about to shake up the Veterans Administration, and that part of the shakeup will be to appoint Bennett Champ Clark.
Sentence 83: Do you plan such a shakeup?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 84: I can't--I didn't hear the question--I am not planning a shakeup, but I didn't know what it was about.
Sentence 85: Q. Veterans Administration.
Sentence 86: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 87: No, I am not planning any immediate shakeup in the Veterans Administration.
Sentence 88: The Veterans Administration, of course, will have to be expanded to meet the situation which we will face as soon as the soldiers return in large numbers.
Sentence 89: And the Veterans Administration, of course, will have to be put on a basis to meet this situation, just as it was put on a basis to meet the situation after the First World War.
Sentence 90: That will be done.
Sentence 91: I don't think it necessitates any serious shakeup.
Sentence 92: Q.
Sentence 93: You said you did not see any immediate shakeup?
Sentence 94: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 95: That's what I meant.
Sentence 96: Q.
Sentence 97: Can we quote that word immediate?
Sentence 98: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 99: No, I wish you wouldn't, for this reason, because I don't want it to appear in any way that I have any intention of immediately discharging anybody.
Sentence 100: I am trying to get this "mess" to operate, and I want you to be as lenient with me as you possibly can.
Sentence 101: The Veterans Administration will be modernized; let's put it that way.
Sentence 102: That should be done as soon as possible, but I can't do it immediately.
Q.
Sentence 103: The second part of my question, Mr. President, was, do you intend to appoint Bennett Champ Clark
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 104: I do not.
Sentence 105: [7.]
Sentence 106: Q. Mr. President, is it true that you are going to send Dr. R. G. Sproul of the University of California to Moscow on a mission ?
Sentence 107: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 108: Yes.
Sentence 109: He is going with Mr. Pauley.
Sentence 110: I want to say to you, since you brought that subject up, that I think we have the finest layout here on this reparations thing that has ever been gotten together.
Sentence 111: It is headed by Mr. Pauley and Dr. Lubin, and we have Dr. Sproul--
Q.
Sentence 112: What's that first name, sir?
Sentence 113: Mr. Daniels: Pauley.
Sentence 114: Q.
Sentence 115: I mean Sproul.
Sentence 116: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 117: Robert Gordon.
Sentence 118: And here is a fellow that must be descended from a Civil War veteran.
Sentence 119: His name is Jubal R. Parten.
Sentence 120: [Laughter]
Q. Steve Early!
Q. Steve's relative!
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 121: Jubal
Sentence 122: Early, as you remember.
Sentence 123: [Laughter]
Q.
Sentence 124: What is Parten going to do?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 125: He is industrial adviser.
Sentence 126: I am going to give you all this--I think there's a release for you on this, but I will read the last sentence of that release:
1
1
For the full text of the statement by the President, see Item 32.
Sentence 127: "The men chosen for this vital mission should inspire the confidence of all Americans.
Sentence 128: They are eminently qualified to do the job.
Sentence 129: "
Sentence 130: And I believe that, with everything that is in me.
Sentence 131: And it's as fine a list as I ever saw.
Sentence 132: I don't know what we are going to do for experts for the peace conference, if Pauley takes them all.
Sentence 133: [Laughter]
Sentence 134: [8.]
Sentence 135: Q. Mr. President, can you tell us what further steps are planned in the anthracite strike?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 136: Whatever steps are necessary to get coal out.
Sentence 137: Coal is what we want, and coal is what we are going to have.
Sentence 138: Reporter:
Sentence 139: Thank you, Mr. President.
