Sentence 1: 1945
Sentence 2: The Presidents News Conference 373

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 3: Everybody here?
Sentence 4: [1.]
Sentence 5: Well, I have some Cabinet changes I wanted to tell you about.
Sentence 6: Mr. Biddle's resignation has been accepted, and Tom Clark of Texas
will be appointed in his place as Attorney General.
Sentence 7: Q. C-l-a-r-k--no E?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 8: Tom C. Clark, no E.
I will read you the first paragraph of the letter I wrote to Mr. Biddle.
Sentence 9: It says, "In accepting your resignation, I desire to express my appreciation of the patriotic services which you have rendered to your country during the war, and during the days when we were preparing for the war."
Sentence 10: And in the last paragraph, "I hope you will have continued happiness and success in your future work, and I trust that I may have the privilege of consulting you in the future when occasion arises.
Sentence 11: "
I am accepting the resignation of Miss Perkins as Secretary of Labor, and am appointing Judge Lewis B. Schwellenbach of Washington to be Secretary of Labor.
Sentence 12: Miss Perkins wrote me a very fine letter, and I wrote her a good one.
Sentence 13: You will receive copies of it.
Sentence 14: Mr. Wickard's resignation is being accepted, and he is being appointed REA Administrator; and Congressman Clinton P. Anderson of New Mexico is being appointed Secretary of Agriculture.
Sentence 15: Q. Clinton B. Anderson ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 16: Clinton P. Anderson.
Sentence 17: Q. D, sir?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 18: P. Anderson, Congressman from New Mexico.
Sentence 19: He has been Chairman of the War Food Committee in the House of Representatives.
Sentence 20: Q. Are all these effective immediately--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 21: No.--
Q.--effective immediately, or June 30th?
Sentence 22: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 23: --the last of the fiscal year.
Sentence 24: These are all effective on June 30, except Mr. Wickard's.
Sentence 25: His takes effect as soon as he is confirmed as REA Administrator.
Sentence 26: I have the resignation of Marvin Jones as War Food Administrator, and I would like to read you the last two paragraphs of Mr. Jones's letter and comment on it.
Sentence 27: "While the war was being fought on both fronts, there was considerable logic in having an independent War Food Administration.
Sentence 28: It has worked well.
Sentence 29: In each of the war years there has been an outstanding record of production.
Sentence 30: There has been complete cooperation between the Secretary of Agriculture and myself.
Sentence 31: "Now, however, that victory in Europe has been achieved, I feel that the work of the Department and the War Food--and War Food could well be carried on by the Secretary of Agriculture, probably with somewhat less expenditure of funds.
Sentence 32: "
Now Judge Jones is going back to the Claims Court on June 30th, and when he goes back and relinquishes the Office of War Food Administrator, , I expect to make the Secretary of Agriculture War Food Administrator.
Sentence 33: And I think that's about all, unless you have got some questions to ask me.
Sentence 34: [Laughter]
Q. I might say that is pretty good.
Sentence 35: Q. Mr. President, the--Clinton Anderson has been--made two or three good reports.--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 36: I think so.
Sentence 37: Q.--and have you read them, and have they--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 38: Yes.
Q.--led you to any consideration on your part?
Sentence 39: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 40: No, it didn't.
Sentence 41: I had him in mind before I read his reports, but his reports helped.
Sentence 42: Q. Mr. President, did Mr. Morgenthau offer his resignation this morning?
Sentence 43: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 44: No, he did not, and if he had, I wouldn't accept it.
Sentence 45: Q. Mr. President, do you contemplate--
Q.
Sentence 46: Who was that?
Sentence 47: Q.
Sentence 48: We didn't hear that.
Sentence 49: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 50: Morgenthau.
Sentence 51: Q.
Sentence 52: What was the reply, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 53: He did not offer his resignation, and if he had, I wouldn't accept it.
Sentence 54: Q. Sir, do you contemplate any change in the State Department?
Sentence 55: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 56: I do not.
Sentence 57: Q. Mr. President, were any of the resignations requested by you ?
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 59: They were not.
Sentence 60: I have the resignation of every member of the Government who can resign since I have been President!
Sentence 61: [Laughter] I can accept them or not as I choose.
Sentence 62: [2.]
Sentence 63: Q. Mr. President, would you clarify, please, the future status of Russia under lend-lease, now that the war in Europe is over?
Sentence 64: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 65: The--I don't care to discuss that.
Sentence 66: I think I covered it very thoroughly in the statement that was issued.
Sentence 67: 1
1
For the President's statement upon signing the bill extending the Lend-Lease Act, see Item 3.
Sentence 68: Q.
Sentence 69: It left open one question, and that is whether or not Russia is getting any lend-lease now?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 70: Russia is getting the lend-lease that she has contracted to receive during the month of May.
Sentence 71: Q. How about, sir, when the protocol expires at the end of June?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 72: Well, let's wait and see what is necessary to be done at that time, then we will take care of it in a way which we think will be all right for the peace of the world.
Sentence 73: Q.
Sentence 74: When did cancellation of orders begin on lend-lease to Russia?
Sentence 75: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 76: The cancellation of lend-lease began as soon as the war ceased.
Sentence 77: It was not a cancellation, it was a readjustment because of the new conditions as they came about due to the collapse of Germany.
Sentence 78: The whole thing has to be gone into completely and thoroughly for all the nations, and I think it would be handled in a way that the country and the world will be helped by it.
Sentence 79: Q. Have you any estimates of the amount of savings resulting from the readjustment?
Sentence 80: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 81: No, I have not, because I don't know just how much of a readjustment has taken place at the present time.
Sentence 82: Q. Mr. President, under the law can lend-lease equipment be sent to Russia, or to any country, when it is not engaged in the war against Japan?
Sentence 83: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 84: Yes, it can.
Sentence 85: When it has been allocated to Russia by protocol and treaty, we have to carry out our commitments.
Sentence 86: [3.]
Sentence 87: Q. Mr. President, now that the war in Europe is over, has any arrangement been made for early release of the Italian armistice terms?
Sentence 88: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 89: I know nothing about it.
Sentence 90: [4.]
Sentence 91: Q. Mr. President, have you-can you inform us at all, on this status of German war prisoners, as to when they will cease being prisoners?
Sentence 92: Have you any plans--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 93: No, I can't.
Sentence 94: Q.--to make any statement on it?
Sentence 95: THE.
Sentence 96: PRESIDENT.
Sentence 97: No, I can't.
Sentence 98: I can't do anything about that until we have an established government in Germany.
Sentence 99: Q.
Sentence 100: That might be for a generation.
Sentence 101: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 102: Well, your guess is as good as mine.
Sentence 103: [Laughter]
Sentence 104: [5.]
Sentence 105: Q. Mr. President, a couple of weeks ago you told us you knew Hitler was dead, but you wouldn't give us very much detail about it.
Sentence 106: Can you give us any now ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 107: Yes, I think I can tell you why I thought Hitler was dead.
Sentence 108: Himmler had told our Minister in Sweden, through the--I think Prince Bernadotte of Sweden--that Hitler had had a stroke and that he wouldn't have but 24 hours to live.
Sentence 109: And I understood that whenever Himmler said anybody had just 24 hours to live, that's about all[remainder of sentence inaudible].
Sentence 110: That's what I based my statement on.
Sentence 111: Q.
Sentence 112: What--does it still hold true ?
Sentence 113: Is that the way you think he died-when he died ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 114: I don't know a thing about his death more than you do--only what I have seen in the papers.
Sentence 115: Reporter:
Sentence 116: Thank you, Mr. President.
