Sentence 1: 1945
Sentence 2: The Presidents News Conference 494

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 3: [reading]: "I have received this afternoon a message from the Japanese Government--"
Before I go any further, this will be in the form of releases, so you don't have to copy it unless you want to.
Sentence 4: "--in reply to the message forwarded to that Government by the Secretary of State on August 11.
Sentence 5: I deem this reply a full acceptance of the Potsdam Declaration which specifies the unconditional surrender of Japan.
Sentence 6: In the reply there is no qualification.
Sentence 7: "Arrangements are now being made for the signing of the surrender terms at the earliest possible moment.
Sentence 8: "General Douglas MacArthur has been appointed the Supreme Allied Commander to receive the Japanese surrender.
Sentence 9: Great Britain, Russia, and China will be represented by high-ranking officers.
Sentence 10: "Meantime, the Allied armed forces have been ordered to suspend offensive action.
Sentence 11: "Proclamation of V-J Day must wait upon the formal signing of the surrender terms by Japan.
Sentence 12: "The following is the Japanese Government's message accepting our terms .
Sentence 13: "
But before I start to read that, there are three releases to come; one has to do with a 2-day holiday.
Sentence 14: 1
The reason we are making it 2 days is because we didn't get to celebrate for the other.
Sentence 15: [Laughter] Then there is one that has to do with the draft.
Sentence 16: 2
1
See Item 102.
Sentence 17: 2
See Item 101.
Sentence 18: This is the official Swiss communique handed to the Secretary of State:
"Sir: I have the honor to refer to your note of August 11, in which you requested me to transmit to my Government the reply of the Governments of the United States, the United Kingdom, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and China to the message from the Japanese Government which was communicated in my note of August 10.
Sentence 19: "At 20.10 today (Swiss Time) the Japanese Minister to Switzerland conveyed the following written statement to the Swiss Government for transmission to the four Allied governments:
"'Communication of the Japanese Government of August 14, 1945, addressed to the Governments of the United States, Great Britain, the Soviet Union, and China:
"'With reference to the Japanese Government's note of August 10 regarding their acceptance of the provisions of the Potsdam declaration and the reply of the Governments of the United States, Great Britain, the Soviet Union, and China sent by American Secretary of State Byrnes under the date of August 11, the Japanese Government have the honor to communicate to the Governments of the four powers as follows:
"'1.
Sentence 20: His Majesty the Emperor has issued an Imperial rescript regarding Japan's acceptance of the provisions of the Potsdam declaration.
Sentence 21: "'2.
Sentence 22: His Majesty the Emperor is prepared to authorize and ensure the signature of his Government and the Imperial General Headquarters of the necessary terms for carrying out the provisions of the Potsdam declaration.
Sentence 23: His Majesty is also prepared to issue his commands to all the military, naval, and air authorities of Japan and all the forces under their control wherever located to cease active operations, to surrender arms and to issue such other orders as may be required by the Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces for the execution of the abovementioned terms.'
Sentence 24: "Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
Sentence 25: "Charge' d' Affaires of the Swiss Government in the United States"
Voice: I congratulate you!
Sentence 26: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 27: That is all.
Sentence 28: Joe Fox, Washington Star: Thank you, Mr. President.
Sentence 29: [Applause and further congratulations]
