Sentence 1: 1945
Sentence 2: The Presidents News Conference 614

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 3: [1.]
Sentence 4: I want to announce some very important changes in the Army command.
Sentence 5: [Reading] "Ever since Japan's surrender, General Marshall has been desirous of relinquishing his position as Chief of Staff.
Sentence 6: He feels that his primary duty of directing the mobilization, the training, and employment of our wartime armies has been completed, and that the military is entering a new and lengthy administration of an interim and postwar army.
Sentence 7: General Marshall is of the firm opinion that the decisions incident to that administration should be made by his successor in office, who will be charged with the responsibility of carrying out those decisions.
Sentence 8: "I need not reiterate my reasons as to why I am loath to deprive myself of General Marshall's services as Chief of Staff of the Army.
Sentence 9: "
I have said that I think he is the greatest military man that this country ever produced--or any other country, for that matter.
Sentence 10: [Continuing reading] "Accordingly, I am relieving him of his duties as Chief of Staff of the Army, and will today send to the Senate the nomination of General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower as General Marshall's successor in that office.
Sentence 11: Pending the action of the Senate, I have designated General Eisenhower as acting Chief of Staff of the Army.
Sentence 12: "I have also approved the selection of General Joseph T. McNarney to relieve General Eisenhower as Commanding General, United States Forces, European Theater, and Commander in Chief of the United States Forces of Occupation in Germany and the Representative of the United States of America on the Control Council of Germany."
Sentence 13: [Ends reading]
I am also appointing--sending down the name of Fleet Admiral Chester W. Nimitz to be Chief of Naval Operations in the Department of the Navy to succeed Admiral King.
Sentence 14: Admiral Nimitz will return to the Pacific, and Admiral Spruance will take over the Pacific command.
Sentence 15: Then Admiral Nimitz will come back here for a few weeks' rest, and then he and Admiral King will work out the taking over of the Chief of Naval Operations, after he has had his vacation.
Sentence 16: Q. Didn't Admiral King have two jobs, Mr. President?
Sentence 17: Isn't he Commander in Chief of the Fleet and Chief of Naval Operations both?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 18: He was Chief of Naval Operations, but Admiral Nimitz is in command of the Pacific Fleet.
Sentence 19: I don't think Admiral King had the job--
Q.
Sentence 20: He had a dual title, Mr. President.
Sentence 21: Commander of the United States Fleet--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 22: That's right.
Q.--and
Sentence 23: Chief--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 24: And Chief of the whole Navy.
Sentence 25: Q.
Sentence 26: He doesn't retain any status in the Navy?
Sentence 27: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 28: No.
Sentence 29: Admiral King asked to be relieved at the same time General Marshall asked to be relieved, immediately after the close of the Japanese--after the Japanese surrender, and I didn't want either one of them to quit and have prevented it up to this time, but I think it has to be accepted.
Sentence 30: Q.
Sentence 31: What are Spruance's initials?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 32: I don't know what Admiral Spruance's initials are.
Sentence 33: Q. Does Admiral Nimitz get both jobs?
Sentence 34: He is Commander in Chief of the Fleet--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 35: He will have the same position as Admiral King has.
Sentence 36: Q.
Sentence 37: That is more or less indefinite, then--I mean as to the time?
Sentence 38: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 39: Yes.
Sentence 40: It will be after Christmas before Admiral Nimitz will relieve Admiral King.
Sentence 41: Q.
Sentence 42: When will the Eisenhower-Marshall change take place, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 43: Immediately.
Q. Immediately?
Sentence 44: Thank you.
Sentence 45: [2.]
Sentence 46: Q. Mr. President, do you have any comment on the progress, or rather lack of progress, of the Labor-Management Conference?
Sentence 47: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 48: I am still hopeful that they will come out with a concrete program for the settlement of disputes between labor and management, just as I suggested that they do when they started to work.
Sentence 49: [3.]
Sentence 50: Q. Mr. President, do you have anything on the resignations of General Arnold and General Somervell, who wanted to quit at the same time General Marshall did?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 51: They have both asked to be relieved, but their resignations have not yet been accepted.
Sentence 52: [4.]
Sentence 53: Q. Mr. President, the Washington Post has started a public opinion poll among the voteless citizens here--
Q.
Sentence 54: Mr. President, what was that paper?
Sentence 55: [The President reached for a copy of the Washington Post, and held it up to the newsmen]
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 56: This is it.
Sentence 57: [Laughter] Of course I believe that every citizen of the United States ought to have the right to vote--including the citizens of Washington.
Sentence 58: Q.
Sentence 59: What do you think of the poll?
Sentence 60: [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 61: Well, I suppose it is as accurate as the Gallup poll, isn't it ?
Sentence 62: [Continued laughter]
Q.
Sentence 63: The idea behind it, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 64: The idea behind it is all right.
Sentence 65: There are practical difficulties, however, which should be worked out for the benefit of the citizens of Washington and for the benefit of the Government of the United States; and I am sure that they will be properly worked out.
Sentence 66: [5.]
Sentence 67: Q. Mr. President, are there any indications that your office might act in the Detroit strike?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 68: What is that?
Sentence 69: Q. Are there any indications your office might take a hand in the Detroit strike trouble?
Sentence 70: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 71: No.
Sentence 72: [6.]
Sentence 73: Q. Mr. President, are you ready as yet to name the members of the Anglo-American Commission on Palestine?
Sentence 74: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 75: No, I am not.
Sentence 76: I am considering several people.
Sentence 77: I can't name them, however, until the government of the--Great Britain and our own Government agree on the size of the Commission and its number.
Sentence 78: [7.]
Sentence 79: Q. Mr. President, this morning there was a resume of the different troubles that we are in throughout the world in connection with war, with the idea that there is peace but it is still not peace.
Sentence 80: Is there anything that you could say to us, sir, that would--that would be a sort of a beacon for ...
Sentence 81: [here the questioner paused]
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 82: Beacon for what?
Sentence 83: [Laughter]
Q.
Sentence 84: I thought you would finish it.
Sentence 85: [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 86: Finish your question and I will answer it--I will make an attempt to answer it.
Sentence 87: Q. Have something for the people to shoot at ?
Sentence 88: [Loud and uproarious laughter]
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 89: Well, it isn't a matter of being something for the people to shoot at.
Sentence 90: It is something for the establishment of world peace, and I think the conference which was held last week was a first step toward implementing the United Nations Organization which will be the fundamental organization through which we can get peace in the world.
Sentence 91: And it is necessary to establish confidence between the various governments in the world in order to have that peace.
Sentence 92: That takes a little time, a little exchange of--a little necessary exchange of viewpoints and ideas.
Sentence 93: Every country is having exactly the same sort of troubles that we are, and I think every country is trying to meet its domestic troubles and not paying as much attention to the international situation as they will at a later date.
Sentence 94: I am not at all pessimistic on the final outcome.
Sentence 95: We will have permanent peace in the world.
Sentence 96: It is necessary that we have permanent peace.
Sentence 97: We are on the threshold, I think, of the greatest age in the history of mankind.
Sentence 98: We must grasp that opportunity, else the other road is complete destruction.
Sentence 99: [8.]
Sentence 100: Q. Mr. President, may I ask if it is your intention to ask the United Nations session, which holds its first meeting in January, to set up the atomic bomb commission which has been proposed as a result of last week's conference?
Sentence 101: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 102: That's the--that's the program.
Sentence 103: Q.
Sentence 104: At the first meeting?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 105: That's the program.
Sentence 106: Q. Thank you.
Sentence 107: Q. Mr. President, will that request go to the Assembly, or to the Security Council, or what are your ideas for its construction?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 108: It will.
Sentence 109: We will have to work out that concrete practical program when the United Nations session takes place.
Sentence 110: I think every one of the countries ought to have a hand in it.
Sentence 111: Q. Mr. President, have you had any official expressions of opinion from Russia, China, or France as to the Anglo-American-Canadian pronouncement on the atomic bomb?
Sentence 112: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 113: No.
Sentence 114: We haven't had time to get the replies yet.
Sentence 115: Q. Mr. President, to clear up that one point that every country ought to have a hand in it, are we to take it to mean that you mean the Assembly should construct it?
Sentence 116: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 117: That's right.
Sentence 118: Q. Mr. President, are we still manufacturing atomic bombs?
Sentence 119: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 120: Yes, we are.
Sentence 121: Q.
Sentence 122: What for, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 123: Experimental purposes.
Sentence 124: [9.]
Sentence 125: Q. Mr. President, are you ready to announce anything about a new Farm Security Administrator?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 126: No, I am not.
Sentence 127: Q. Mr. Anderson is worrying about it.
Sentence 128: [10.]
Sentence 129: Q. Mr. President, on that bomb question, there are some of us who thought that even after the industrial know-how was made available that there would be a missing link, so to speak, between the industrial production and manufacturing of the bomb, and we were not turning loose that secret.
Sentence 130: Is that correct, sir?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 131: That is a question that I can't answer intelligently because it takes a scientist who is familiar with all the p's and q's
Sentence 132: and I don't claim to be a physicist; but it is the program as outlined in the agreement between Great Britain, Canada, and ourselves, to try to implement that tremendous discovery which we have made for peacetime purposes instead of for wartime purposes.
Sentence 133: And one of the ways to do that would be to use the material which has been set aside for--which has been made into the bombs--for experimental purposes for peacetime use in industrial programs.
Sentence 134: That will take some time.
Sentence 135: It will take a lot of scientific research and information, but I think we will finally arrive at that stage.
Sentence 136: We must arrive at that stage, or else we will arrive at a stage of destruction.
Sentence 137: [11.]
Sentence 138: Q. Mr. President, is there any reason why the Byron Price report on Germany can't be released for publication?
Sentence 139: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 140: No, there isn't--we are not ready to release it.
Sentence 141: It will be released at the proper time.
Sentence 142: 1
1
See Item 201.
Sentence 143: [12.]
Sentence 144: Q. Mr. President, the two new military leaders--Eisenhower and Nimitz--took conflicting sides on how they ought to reorganize the postwar defenses.
Sentence 145: Does the Commander in Chief have a point of view?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 146: Yes, the Commander in Chief has a point of view, and he will express it at the proper time.
Sentence 147: [Laughter]
Q. In a message to the Congress?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 148: Yes, and I think that they will all be in the boat when the Commander in Chief expresses his opinion.
Sentence 149: [13.]
Sentence 150: Q. Mr. President, do you contemplate an early meeting of the Big Three?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 151: I do not.
Sentence 152: Reporter:
Sentence 153: Thank you, Mr. President.
