Sentence 1: 1945
Sentence 2: The Presidents News Conference 651

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 3: First, I want to read you a couple of letters, which will be distributed as you go out, so if I get a little too fast for you, why--
Sentence 4: [1.]
Sentence 5: [Reading, not literally]: "My dear Mr. President: I hereby tender you my resignation as Postmaster General
1
to become effective at a time that best meets with your convenience.
Sentence 6: 1
Frank C. Walker served from September 11, 1940, through June 30, 1945.
Sentence 7: "I have in the stage of preparation a report of my stewardship, together with certain suggestions concerning a reorganization of the Postal Department.
Sentence 8: This report will be completed within thirty days.
Sentence 9: If agreeable to you, Mr. President, I would like to have the resignation made effective at that time.
Sentence 10: "The mantle of a great President has fallen upon you.
Sentence 11: Statesman and humanitarian, Franklin D. Roosevelt had a heart which beat with true compassion for all who suffered or bore heavy burdens.
Sentence 12: The Nation, so sorely bereft of his leadership, has found unity as well as strength and courage in the pledge of faith which you gave to all the world in the address to the Congress in joint session this afternoon.
Sentence 13: "Franklin D. Roosevelt now takes his place with the great men of the ages.
Sentence 14: May his noble spirit guide and inspire you as you take up the fight for the ideals in defense of which he gave all of his strength, his very life.
Sentence 15: "It remains for me only to add that I have full confidence in your leadership.
Sentence 16: Although I relinquish public office, I am yours to command if ever I can be of service to you in the heavy tasks which lie ahead.
Sentence 17: "
And this is my reply.
Sentence 18: [2.]
Sentence 19: [Reading, not literally]: "Dear Frank: I have learned in a very short time that the President of the United States all too often has to act in ways that please others and which are very different from the personal wishes and feelings of the President himself.
Sentence 20: Full realization of this is brought home to me very forcibly by your request that I accept your resignation as Postmaster General.
Sentence 21: "It goes without saying that your request is reluctantly and grudgingly granted, effective as of the close of business on June 30, 1945.
Sentence 22: I must warn you, however, that I confidently expect to take advantage of your offer to return to me whenever there is need of your services in the future.
Sentence 23: "We sever only the official ties between us.
Sentence 24: The warm friendship and close association which has been ours through many years goes on as before.
Sentence 25: "The splendid service you have rendered your Country, and your Government, will long be remembered by a grateful people.
Sentence 26: I count myself one of them, and thank you for your statement of confidence in my Administration."
Sentence 27: [3.]
Sentence 28: I am sending down to the Senate the nomination of Robert E. Hannegan, of Missouri, to be Postmaster General, effective July 1, 1945.
Sentence 29: Q. Sending it down tomorrow, probably?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 30: It will go to Mr. Biffle this afternoon, who will present it to the Senate tomorrow.
Sentence 31: [4.]
Sentence 32: I nominate Mr. David E. Lilienthal, of Wisconsin, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority, for the term expiring 9 years after May 18, 1945.
Sentence 33: That will go down at the same time as Mr. Hannegan's does.
Sentence 34: [5.]
Sentence 35: I issued an Executive order today, appointing Mr. Justice Jackson to be the representative of the United States--I will just read you this, this statement which I am issuing, which you will also receive as you go out, in mimeographed form.
Sentence 36: [Reading, not literally]: "At my request, Mr. Justice Robert H. Jackson, in addition to his duties as Justice of the Supreme Court, has accepted designation as Chief of Counsel for the United States in preparing and prosecuting charges of atrocities and war crimes against such of the leaders of the European Axis powers, and their principal agents and accessories, as the United States may agree with any of the United Nations to bring to trial before an international military tribunal.
Sentence 37: "Pursuant to the Moscow Declaration of November 1, 1943, all war criminals, against whom there is a sufficient proof of personal participation in specific atrocities, are to be returned to the countries where their crimes were committed, to be judged and punished by those countries themselves.
Sentence 38: These cases are not involved in this assignment.
Sentence 39: "There are left, however, the cases of other war criminals--particularly the major war criminals and their principal agents and accessories, whose offenses have no particular geographical localization.
Sentence 40: "I hope and expect that an international military tribunal will soon be organized to try this second category of war criminals.
Sentence 41: It will be Justice Jackson's responsibility to represent the United States in preparing and presenting the case against these criminals before such military tribunal.
Sentence 42: "Justice Jackson has assembled a staff from within the War, Navy, and other departments concerned, which has already begun work, so that there will be no delay on the part of the United States.
Sentence 43: It is desirable that preparation begin at once, even though details of the military court are not yet determined.
Sentence 44: "I have just signed an Executive order designating Justice Jackson to this post.
Sentence 45: He and his staff will examine the evidence already gathered and being gathered by the United Nations War Crimes Commission in London and by the various allied armies and other agencies; he will arrange for assembling the necessary additional evidence.
Sentence 46: He will begin preparation for the trial.
Sentence 47: "It is our objective to establish as soon as possible an international military tribunal; to provide a trial procedure which will be expeditious in nature and which will permit no evasion or delay--but one which is in keeping with our tradition of fairness towards those accused of crime.
Sentence 48: Steps to carry this out are actively under way.
Sentence 49: "Arguments in the Supreme Court for the current term will conclude this week, and the Court has ordered adjournment on May 28th.
Sentence 50: It is hoped .that the trial of these war crimes cases will have been completed next October when the Court reconvenes.
Sentence 51: "
I am ready for questions!
Sentence 52: [Laughter]
Sentence 53: [6.]
Sentence 54: Q. Mr. President, have the negotiations which the State Department just told us about, being carried on by the Swedish Government and the German Government--have they broken down completely?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 55: I can't answer that.
Sentence 56: [7.]
Sentence 57: Q. Mr. President, with reference here to Mr. Hannegan, your understanding is he will continue as chairman of--National Chairman?
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 59: Yes.
Sentence 60: [8.]
Sentence 61: Q. Mr. President, when you were Vice President, a CIO delegation asked you to help in revising the Little Steel formula.
Sentence 62: You told them, somewhat firmly, that you were against upsetting any formula that would put us into a spiral of inflation.
Sentence 63: Can you elaborate on that ?
Sentence 64: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 65: My position on that hasn't changed a bit.
Sentence 66: Well, after all, the reason for all these war agencies which have been established-that is, price control and wage control--and agreements which we have had with industry and with union labor have been with the one object in view: to prevent wild inflation.
Sentence 67: I am just as strong for that now as I was when I was Vice President.
Sentence 68: [9.]
Sentence 69: Q. Mr. President, we heard today that you might go up to address a joint session of Congress on V-E Day.
Sentence 70: Is there anything to that?
Sentence 71: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 72: I haven't made any program of that nature.
Sentence 73: Haven't had it in mind.
Sentence 74: [10.]
Sentence 75: Q. Mr. President, have you sent a new message to Mr. Stalin regarding the Polish problem?
Sentence 76: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 77: No, not any new one.
Sentence 78: Q. Well, in the last--since Mr. Molotov came here, sir?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 79: I have been in communication with Mr. Stalin since Mr. Molotov came here.
Sentence 80: 1
1
A White House release of April 23 announced that the President had twice received V. M. Molotov, Vice Chairman, Council of People's Commissars and People's Commissar for Foreign Affairs, USSR, during his short stay in Washington.
Sentence 81: The release also stated that the Secretary of State had conferred with Mr. Moletoy and with Anthony Eden, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom, on the Polish situation and on matters connected with the San Francisco Conference.
Sentence 82: The release further stated that discussion of the Polish situation would be continued by the three foreign secretaries at San Francisco.
Sentence 83: [11.]
Sentence 84: Q. Mr. President, do you favor the Morgenthau plan designed to use Germany as an agricultural country?
Sentence 85: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 86: I don't know anything about the Morgenthau plan.
Sentence 87: I haven't studied it at all, so I can't answer you.
Sentence 88: [12.]
Sentence 89: Q. Mr. President, did you mean to put a period at the end of that sentence, or were you hoping for a question--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 90: No, I Wasn't hoping for a question.
Sentence 91: Q.--referring to your communication with Mr. Stalin?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 92: I had a period at the end of the sentence--intended to have.
Sentence 93: [13.]
Sentence 94: Q. Mr. President, did you have lunch today with the new Ambassador from the Argentine ?
Sentence 95: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 96: Yes, I did.
Sentence 97: I had a very pleasant visit with him, and he and his wife are coming to call on us tomorrow or the next day.
Sentence 98: [14.]
Sentence 99: Q. Mr. President, it may not be a part of the addenda--whatever it's called--in connection with Justice Jackson, but there is before Congress--before the people--the question of war criminals who may evade or try to evade by escaping to neutral countries, or some other form.
Sentence 100: Have you anything particular to say about policy, in that respect ?
Sentence 101: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 102: Well, most of the neutral countries, I think, are on record as against protecting any war criminals, and I think we will succeed in getting all of the rest of the neutral countries into the same frame of mind.
Sentence 103: At least I hope so.
Sentence 104: Q. Mr. President, that would be your desire?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 105: Yes.
Sentence 106: Q. Mr. President, can you tell us whether Admiral Doenitz is on the list of war criminals?
Sentence 107: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 108: No, sir, I can't.
Sentence 109: [15.]
Sentence 110: Q. Mr. President, do you have any views on tax reductions after V-E Day?
Sentence 111: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 112: I am discussing tax problems with the Secretary of the Treasury now, and I would prefer to discuss that in the press conference particularly devoted to taxes.
Sentence 113: [16.]
Sentence 114: Q. Mr. President, this morning you made public a number of cuts that you are recommending in general.
Sentence 115: Would you give us any sort of figure on how much you expect to lop off altogether?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 116: No, I didn't total it.
Sentence 117: It is somewhere in the neighborhood of 7 or 8 billion.
Sentence 118: 1
1
On May 2 the White House announced that the President had sent letters to Congress recommending (1) a reduction in ship construction funds of more than $7 billion, and (2) a reduction of more than $80 million in the 1946 budget estimates for eight war agencies.
Sentence 119: A third release stated that the President had informed Congress that the Office of Civilian Defense would be terminated and that he had withdrawn its proposed budget of $369,000 for the next fiscal year.
Sentence 120: Q.
Sentence 121: It is now, and I thought maybe there are additional cuts.
Sentence 122: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 123: Well, there will be additional cuts, but they are still under consideration, and that will be done circumspectly, so I don't want now to prophesy.
Sentence 124: [17.]
Sentence 125: Q. Mr. President, is there any change in Army operation of Montgomery Ward contemplated?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 126: None whatever.
Sentence 127: The policy on Montgomery Ward will be followed as it has been started.
Sentence 128: [18.]
Sentence 129: Q. Mr. President, can you say anything on your attitude toward the full employment bill of Senator Murray?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 130: I would--I am not familiar with Senator Murray's full employment bill, but I am for full employment, and shall do everything in my power to create full employment as soon as hostilities end and we start back on the civil program.
Sentence 131: [19.]
Sentence 132: Q. Mr. President, in this 7 or 8 billion reduction in budget, has that been in any way translated into the numbers of civilian employees of the Government who will be dropped?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 133: No.
Sentence 134: These are anticipated expenditures--on ship construction, and things of that sort.
Sentence 135: Q.
Sentence 136: It does imply, sir
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 137: It does imply, of course--
Q.--obvious reductions?
Sentence 138: THE PRESIDENT.--it will imply some reductions.
Sentence 139: Studies are being made to meet that situation.
Sentence 140: [20.]
Sentence 141: Q. The State Department recapitulation of the peace negotiations ends on the note that the Swedish Count Bernadotte came back from Germany yesterday, after having delivered the last message to Himmler and had no reply.
Sentence 142: Has there been a reply since yesterday ?
Sentence 143: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 144: There has not been a reply.
Sentence 145: The release of the State Department stands just as it is.
Sentence 146: [21.]
Sentence 147: Q. Mr. President, would you care to comment on the death of Adolf Hitler reported, or Mussolini?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 148: Well, of course, the two principal war criminals will not have to come to trial; and I am very happy they are out of the way.
Sentence 149: Q. Well, does that mean, sir, that we know officially that Hitler is dead?
Sentence 150: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 151: Yes.
Sentence 152: Q.
Sentence 153: Do we know how he died, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 154: No, we do not.
Sentence 155: Q. Mr. President, I didn't quite get that.
Sentence 156: Is it official?
Sentence 157: This is confirmation that Hitler is dead?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 158: We have the best--on the best authority possible to obtain at this time that Hitler is dead.
Sentence 159: But how he died we are not-we are not familiar with the details as yet.
Sentence 160: Q. Could you name the authority, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 161: I would rather not.
Sentence 162: Q. Mr. President, do you mean that the--you are convinced that authority you give is the best possible, but it is--but that it is true?
Sentence 163: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 164: Yes.
Sentence 165: [22.]
Sentence 166: Q. Mr. President, do you care to comment at all on the situation in Germany today; that is, would you care to make any extension of your remarks on the surrender of the German army in Italy?
Sentence 167: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 168: No, I would not.
Sentence 169: Q. Mr. President, do you contemplate a radio broadcast imminently?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 170: No, I do not.
Sentence 171: Q. Mr. President, there have been reports late--later today, following the Italian announcement, that other groups of Germans are on the point of surrendering in the Dutch pockets?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 172: I hope that is true.
Sentence 173: I don't know that it is.
Sentence 174: [23.]
Sentence 175: Q. Mr. President, is there anything you can give us in the way of background, regarding last Saturday's situation and announcement?
Sentence 176: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 177: What was that?
Sentence 178: [Laughter]
Q.
Sentence 179: I think that was the one
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 180: I can't give you anything further on it, I am sorry to say.
Sentence 181: Reporter:
Sentence 182: Thank you, Mr. President.
