Sentence 1: 1946 The Presidents News Conference 436

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: [1.]
Sentence 3: I have been somewhat disturbed by the comments on the meat situation, and since I happen to know of my own knowledge something about the meat situation, and since I have been from a meat-producing State, and have been--during the early years of the war--into it in detail, I am now and for some time have been looking into this present meat shortage.
Sentence 4: In July and August, when there was no price control on meat, meat was abundant.
Sentence 5: Now there is price control, and meat is short.
Sentence 6: It is natural, therefore, for people to blame the shortage on price control.
Sentence 7: This line of reasoning is wholly wrong.
Sentence 8: The fact is that the present shortage is due in large part to the extraordinarily large slaughter in July and August.
Sentence 9: Without price control, prices of the relatively short supply of livestock went to unprecedented heights.
Sentence 10: A lot of livestock was rushed to the market because of these prices, and because it was known that the controls were likely to be restored.
Sentence 11: Many of these cattle would normally have been fed to heavier weights and have gone to market during September and October, instead of August.
Sentence 12: And those underfed cattle that were sold added to the shortage--there was that many fewer pounds of meat when they were slaughtered.
Sentence 13: Whether price control had been restored or not, the glut of meat in the summer was bound to mean a shortage in the fall, especially on desirable cuts and grades.
Sentence 14: Besides, with the restoration of price controls after a period of uncertainty and confusion, it was only natural that livestock growers would hesitate to send their animals to market.
Sentence 15: Producers would naturally hope that something might happen to give them higher prices again.
Sentence 16: Mr. Anderson dispelled that idea the other night in his speech.
Sentence 17: To the extent that livestock is going into feed lots and being fed to higher grades and better weights, the result will be a greater quantity and better quality of meat in the near future than would be the case if there had been a further continuance of the premature marketing of livestock.
Sentence 18: That's just in line with what I told you about, that they were worth more when they were short.
Sentence 19: Also, the normal run of grass-fed cattle, which occurs in the early fall, should soon begin to appear, with a consequent improvement in the meat supply.
Sentence 20: But I want to say to you that the fat grass-fed cattle supply is also short, for the simple reason that there was a drought in the Southwest beginning in June, which dried up most of the grass, so the ordinarily large supply of grass-fed cattle will also be short; although what there is of the grass-fed cattle will be shipped in October.
Sentence 21: I know about these things, for I lived in one of the greatest cattle growing States in the country most of my life, and I spent all of my young days feeding cattle and livestock and hogs, so I know what I'm talking about on this.
Sentence 22: [Laughter]
The fall run of hogs which normally begins in October may be somewhat later this year because of the prospects of a record corn crop, and the resulting opportunity for profit from feeding to heavier weights.
Sentence 23: Ordinarily, the heaviest hog slaughter occurs in the period from October through February, during which over half of the total yearly slaughter customarily takes place.
Sentence 24: You see, there are two crops of pigs in this country, in the spring and in the fall.
Sentence 25: Fall hogs you feed through the winter.
Sentence 26: In spite of the outlook for temporary relief in the next few months, it is hard to predict what may happen in the spring.
Sentence 27: Now this meat shortage, to some extent, is due to the fact that we were willing to ship some of our short grain supplies to those countries where people were starving to death.
Sentence 28: All this dovetails in together.
Sentence 29: It is very possible that there may be periods in various parts of the country when meat is scarce.
Sentence 30: Certainly, however, the dire predictions of a meat famine are without basis.
Sentence 31: I want to repeat that the difficulties with our meat supply cannot be laid at the door of price control.
Sentence 32: If, as I had urged upon the Congress, the price control legislation had been reenacted in the early spring, many of these difficulties would have been avoided.
Sentence 33: It is clear, however, that the present level of livestock ceilings as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture is fair and equitable, and one which should be sufficient to bring forth the maximum production of meat.
Sentence 34: An increase in prices or abandonment of price control on meat now would, in the long run, add to rather than solve our difficulties.
Sentence 35: Now that will be available for you for distribution as soon as it can be mimeographed.
Sentence 36: I was slow in getting it ready, but it will be ready for you.
Sentence 37: Q. Mr. President, there's a meat shortage at present
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 38: Yes, there's a meat shortage at present.
Sentence 39: Q. --which housewives don't understand.
Sentence 40: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 41: That's right.
Sentence 42: Q.
Sentence 43: When you say that dire predictions of a meat famine are without basis, you mean that fairly soon we will have some meat?
Sentence 44: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 45: That's right.
Sentence 46: Q. Can't hear Mr. Godwin back here.
Sentence 47: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 48: Mr. Godwin asks if there is a meat shortage now; and of course there is a shortage of meat now.
Sentence 49: He wants to know if it is a meat famine.
Sentence 50: I say it is not a meat famine.
Sentence 51: It is a shortage but not a famine.
Sentence 52: There is some meat for distribution.
Sentence 53: Q. Mr. President, several of us have just come from the Executive Committee meeting of the Democratic National Committee.
Sentence 54: At their lunch today the Executive Committee passed a resolution unanimously which ends, "It was the consensus of the meeting that the Chairman immediately discuss with the Decontrol Board and any other proper authorities, ways and means of increasing the meat supply available to the American people.
Sentence 55: "
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 56: My statement--
Q.
Sentence 57: The only thing that Chairman Hannegan would discuss with the Decontrol Board would be taking off the price control from meat, would it not?
Sentence 58: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 59: Yes--and it is my opinion, with all the facts before me, that that would not help the situation, but would hurt it in the future.
Sentence 60: Q.
Sentence 61: You differ with Mr. Hannegan on that point?
Sentence 62: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 63: I have the facts right here in my statement.
Sentence 64: If Mr. Hannegan does not agree with them, of course he and I do not agree.
Sentence 65: Q. Mr. President, can the Decontrol Board act independently in this matter, or does it have to--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 66: No, there is a certain procedure which has to be gone through.
Sentence 67: Q.
Sentence 68: It has to have a recommendation from somebody--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 69: That's right.
Sentence 70: Q. Mr. President, Congressman Sabath adds another element to this meat situation.
Sentence 71: He sent a telegram to the Attorney General today, which charged that the packers are conducting an organized strike of organized greed against the American people.
Sentence 72: Do you see any signs of such a thing as that?
Sentence 73: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 74: I don't know anything about it, if there is.
Sentence 75: Mr. Sabath is in Chicago.
Sentence 76: He is closer to the situation.
Sentence 77: I don't know anything about that.
Sentence 78: That's not in these--taken into consideration in these facts
Sentence 79: [pointing to his statement].
Sentence 80: I don't think--these are the facts really, as the situation stands.
Sentence 81: Q. Mr. President, you think that meat will be substantially available in the near future?
Sentence 82: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 83: I think so, yes--if the people will just be patient and let this thing catch up with itself.
Sentence 84: It's that panic when the price control went off that has caused this situation.
Sentence 85: Q. Summing all this up, you are opposed to the removal of price control?
Sentence 86: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 87: I certainly am.
Sentence 88: And I tried to get the Congress to agree with that beginning last September--a year ago.
Sentence 89: Q. Mr. President, do you think that there is a possibility that meat cattle raisers are deliberately holding cattle off the market-which normally would come to market--for the purpose of panicking the country and forcing the end of price controls on meat?
Sentence 90: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 91: I don't know as to that.
Sentence 92: I have made no investigation.
Sentence 93: That is entirely possible, however.
Sentence 94: Q.
Sentence 95: Do you think it is possible, now that you and Mr. Anderson have made it clear that there isn't going to he a break in the ceiling, that the price of meat may come down?
Sentence 96: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 97: I am very sure that that is the case.
Sentence 98: That's the reason that I am trying to make it perfectly plain just what the situation actually is.
Sentence 99: Q. Mr. President, that bill you vetoed provided for meat control, did it not?
Sentence 100: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 101: I can't remember.
Sentence 102: I can't answer that intelligently without taking a look.
Sentence 103: Q. Mr. President, the statement you just read at the outset is for direct quotation ?
Sentence 104: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 105: Yes.
Sentence 106: It will be furnished to you as soon as we can have it mimeographed.
Sentence 107: That's the facts as they are, and I can guarantee that that's the facts, because I know.
Sentence 108: Q.
Sentence 109: But by "in the near future," does that mean--would you say something more specifically than near future ?
Sentence 110: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 111: No, I don't think you can, because nobody can tell you exactly what date it will be.
Sentence 112: It depends on how the cattle come to market.
Sentence 113: [2.]
Sentence 114: Q. Mr. President, did you see John McCormack's telegram on the statement that he made?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 115: I saw the purported statement, and Mr. John McCormack was talked to by my Secretary.
Sentence 116: He said he didn't make any such statement.
Sentence 117: I told him to get in touch with me.
Sentence 118: Q. Didn't make?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 119: That's right.
Sentence 120: Q. Mr. President, is there any likelihood that Congress will be convened in special session?
Sentence 121: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 122: I see no reason for it.
Sentence 123: Q.
Sentence 124: You mean Mr. McCormack hasn't seen you about it?
Sentence 125: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 126: No.
Sentence 127: He said he didn't make any such statement.
Sentence 128: Q.
Sentence 129: His statement had several parts, Mr. President.
Sentence 130: You mean the part about his consultation--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 131: Consultation with me.
Sentence 132: That's the only part in which I was interested.
Sentence 133: [3.]
Sentence 134: Q. Well, what about your new Ambassador to Great Britain, have you decided on him?
Sentence 135: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 136: No, I have not.
Sentence 137: Q.
Sentence 138: You haven't reached a decision ?
Sentence 139: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 140: No, I haven't reached a decision.
Sentence 141: I will let you know as soon as I do.
Sentence 142: [4.]
Sentence 143: Q. Members to the Atomic Energy Commission, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 144: I haven't reached a decision on that as yet.
Sentence 145: As quickly as I can get that together, I will let you know about it.
Sentence 146: Q. Would that apply, Mr. President, to the possibility of Bob La Follette coming in--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 147: I have no statement today to make on the Atomic Energy Commission.
Sentence 148: [5.]
Sentence 149: Q. How about TVA?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 150: No statement.
Sentence 151: [6.]
Sentence 152: Q. Mr. President, the War Department has announced that infantry task forces are operating in Alaska and the Aleutians for training and testing of equipment.
Sentence 153: The Army Air Forces, which hasn't made any such announcement, is also sending a good deal of equipment up there.
Sentence 154: I wondered if you could say anything about that?
Sentence 155: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 156: No, I can't.
Sentence 157: [7.]
Sentence 158: Q. Mr. President, have you any comment to make on Mr. Stalin's recent statement on international affairs?
Sentence 159: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 160: The statement speaks for itself.
Sentence 161: I have no comment.
Sentence 162: Reporter:
Sentence 163: Thank you, Mr. President.
