Sentence 1: 1946 The Presidents News Conference 416

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: [1.]
Sentence 3: I am announcing some appointments, and reading you a statement on them.
Sentence 4: Appointing John Nicholas Brown of Rhode Island to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Air.
Sentence 5: [2.]
Sentence 6: [Reading]: "I have today named Mr. David E. Lilienthal as Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, and as his associates on the Commission, Robert F. Bacher, Sumner T. Pike, Lewis L. Strauss, and William W. Waymack.
Sentence 7: "Together these men--each of whom has distinguished himself in his public and professional career--will bring to the work of the Commission abilities and experience which will command the confidence of the country.
Sentence 8: We may be grateful that they have been willing to set aside all personal considerations, and to take, as members of the Commission, responsibilities as great as any men have ever assumed in peacetime.
Sentence 9: "The Commission will take over properties and an organization which in magnitude are comparable to the largest business enterprises of the country.
Sentence 10: "
There are nine pieces of literature to be handed out to you in mimeograph form as you go out.
Sentence 11: All of you will have these things in full when I get through.
Sentence 12: [Continuing reading]: "There is no activity--Government or business--upon which the security and the enrichment of our Nation are more heavily dependent.
Sentence 13: "During the war, the Army was charged with the responsibility for atomic energy, and under General Groves' guidance, the Manhattan District carried the project forward with brilliant success.
Sentence 14: Now, in accordance with the Atomic Energy Act of 1946, the entire program is to be transferred to the new Commission.
Sentence 15: It will continue to move forward with the complete cooperation of the military and civilian personnel of the Manhattan Engineer District and all its many contractors, and with the full support of the War and Navy Departments.
Sentence 16: "The Commission obviously must have a period of time in which to study the present program in detail, to analyze the broad scope of the problems facing it, and to lay plans for carrying out its very great responsibilities.
Sentence 17: The orderly transfer of functions and properties from the Manhattan District may well extend over a period of months.
Sentence 18: "Discussion of the preliminary steps is already under way and the transfer will be accomplished as expeditiously as possible.
Sentence 19: During the period of transition, however, the Commission has asked the War Department to continue to carry on functions and operate facilities of the Manhattan project, so that there will be no interruptions in work while the actual transfers are being planned and carried out.
Sentence 20: To this arrangement, which meets with my approval, the Secretary of War and General Groves have agreed.
Sentence 21: "Under the broad charter and the general policies which the Congress has formulated in the Atomic Energy Act of 1946, we look to this Commission to develop and carry on an ever-expanding program through which the benefits of atomic energy may be realized.
Sentence 22: "We recognize that the full measure of these benefits cannot be achieved without the establishment of adequate international controls.
Sentence 23: We must therefore always be mindful that the most important step in realizing the promise of atomic energy for ourselves add for the world is the successful conclusion of the negotiations which are now in progress in the Atomic Energy Commission of the United Nations.
Sentence 24: Chairman Lilienthal and his associates, through their effective administration of our atomic energy program, will be of material assistance in advancing us toward that goal.
Sentence 25: "Although the way may not appear entirely clear, we must direct all our efforts to the end that neither this nation, nor any other nation, shall suffer the penalties of atomic warfare and that the great achievements of science and industry will be instrumental in bringing a better way of life to all mankind."
Sentence 26: [Ends reading]
We want the development of atomic energy to be entirely in the interest of peace and not in the interest of war.
Sentence 27: [3.]
Sentence 28: I am today naming Gordon R. Clapp as Chairman of the TVA, to succeed David E. Lilienthal--
Q. TVA?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 29: TVA, yes.
Sentence 30: TVA.
Sentence 31: Gordon R. Cl-a-p-p--to be Chairman of the TVA, to succeed David E. Lilienthal.
Sentence 32: [Reading] "Mr. Clapp has been TVA's General Manager since October 1939, and prior to that time served as Director of Personnel.
Sentence 33: Mr. Clapp's term of service, subject to confirmation of the Senate, will be until May 1954.
Sentence 34: "I make this appointment of Mr. Clapp with a sense of great satisfaction, which I am sure all the millions of friends and supporters of TVA will share with me.
Sentence 35: His appointment and service mean a continuation of the superior performance in the public service that has characterized TVA in the past.
Sentence 36: It means that TVA will have at its head a man of wide experience and understanding of TVA's problems and opportunities, and one therefore uniquely qualified to provide sound leadership."
Sentence 37: There is another page to that statement, which I hope you will use in full, just as if I had read it, because it is important.
Sentence 38: 1
1
See Item 244.
Sentence 39: And you will receive Mr. Lilienthal's letter of resignation as Chairman of the TVA, and my reply.
Sentence 40: And you will receive brief biographical sketches of the five members of the Atomic Energy Commission, and of Mr. Clapp, as you go out.
Sentence 41: That's all, gentlemen.
Sentence 42: [4.]
Sentence 43: Q. Mr. President, will the Commission have the operating control over all parts of the atomic program?
Sentence 44: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 45: That's what the law says, and the law will be strictly complied with.
Sentence 46: Q.
Sentence 47: Do they require Senatorial confirmation, Mr. President ?
Sentence 48: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 49: Yes, they do.
Sentence 50: Q. What about the political party affiliations of the Committee ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 51: I do not know.
Sentence 52: I made no inquiries as to that.
Sentence 53: They are not political appointments.
Sentence 54: Q.
Sentence 55: These are interim appointments?
Sentence 56: They will serve--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 57: Yes, they will be interim appointments.
Sentence 58: They will go immediately to work and then they will be sent to the Senate when the Senate convenes.
Sentence 59: [5.]
Sentence 60: Q. Mr. President, have you any news for us today on the threatened coal strike?
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 62: No, I have not.
Sentence 63: There will be no strike.
Sentence 64: Q. There will be no strike?
Sentence 65: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 66: No.
Q.
Sentence 67: That's quite a bit of news.
Sentence 68: [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 69: That will be confirmed at another press conference which is going on at the present time.
Sentence 70: [6.]
Sentence 71: Q. Mr. President, could you make any comment on the visit of Prime Minister Mackenzie King?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 72: It was a friendly call on the part of Mr. King.
Sentence 73: Discussed most everything which friends do discuss when they meet.
Sentence 74: [7.]
Sentence 75: Q. Mr. President, will this new Commission cooperate with the United Nations Atomic Commission?
Sentence 76: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 77: They will cooperate with the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission as the statement says they plan.
Sentence 78: [8.]
Sentence 79: Q. Mr. President, can you tell us what conference is going on now about coal ?
Sentence 80: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 81: Mr. Lewis is having a press conference.
Sentence 82: Q.
Sentence 83: Mr. Lewis is having a press conference?
Sentence 84: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 85: Yes.
Sentence 86: Reporter:
Sentence 87: Thank you, Mr. President.
