Sentence 1: 1946 Remarks The Cadet Corps West Point

General Taylor, General Higgins, members of the Cadet Corps:
Sentence 2: It is a pleasure and a privilege to me today to pay you an official visit as the Commanderin-Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States of America.
Sentence 3: In my youth many, many years ago, I had hopes of being a member of this Corps.
Sentence 4: I didn't make it.
Sentence 5: I am sure--morally certain--that if I had made it, I think I would have made a good officer, at least I would have tried.
Sentence 6: We are facing a situation now which every country has faced after a terrible emergency.
Sentence 7: We are facing the situation now that we faced after World War I, that we faced after the War Between the States, and that we faced after the war for the freedom of the Colonies.
Sentence 8: It is nothing new.
Sentence 9: There is going to come a time now when people are going to be sorry that they ever saw a soldier or a sailor or a marine.
Sentence 10: Don't let that worry you.
Sentence 11: We are going to need leadership now, and from now on, just as badly as we have needed it in this great emergency through which we have just been.
Sentence 12: I want to say to you young gentlemen that leadership is naturally ingrained into some men.
Sentence 13: My definition of leadership is.'
Sentence 14: It is that quality which can make other men do what they do not want to do, and like it.
Sentence 15: That is your duty.
Sentence 16: That is going to be your job.
Sentence 17: That doesn't mean that your leadership has to be confined entirely to your military education.
Sentence 18: Some of our greatest civilian leaders right now are men who have been trained to a military leadership.
Sentence 19: Three shining examples: General Marshall who is now in China doing a wonderful job for the Government of the United States, and General Bradley, and Admiral Moreell who has just retired from service.
Sentence 20: Those gentlemen have been doing peacetime jobs that were just as important as their wartime jobs.
Sentence 21: We are looking forward now to a permanent peace.
Sentence 22: We believe that we are going to have a permanent peace.
Sentence 23: That is what we are working for.
Sentence 24: Nevertheless, we will still need the leadership which is being ingrained into you young gentlemen.
Sentence 25: Bear that in mind.
Sentence 26: Give the country the best you have, and no matter what they may say about you for wearing a uniform in the future, maintain that dignity that goes with the leadership that has made this country great, and then you will earn your salt which the Government is now giving you.
Sentence 27: Thank you.
