Sentence 1: 1946 The Presidents News Conference 421

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: [1.]
Sentence 3: Gentlemen, I have a statement for you, which I will read to you.
Sentence 4: Then it will be handed to you in mimeographed form as soon as the conference is over.
Sentence 5: "The American people have elected a Republican majority to the Senate and to the House of Representatives.
Sentence 6: Under our Constitution the Congress is the law-making body.
Sentence 7: The people have chosen to entrust the controlling voice in this branch of our Government to the Republican party.
Sentence 8: I accept their verdict in the spirit which all good citizens accept the result of any fair election.
Sentence 9: "At the same time, and under the same Constitution, the duties and responsibilities of the Chief Executive and the executive branch of the Government are entrusted to me and my associates.
Sentence 10: "Our Government is founded upon the constitutional principle that the three branches of the Government are independent of each other.
Sentence 11: Under this principle our country has prospered and grown great.
Sentence 12: I should be less than candid, however, if I omitted to state that the present situation threatens serious difficulties.
Sentence 13: "Only by the exercise of wisdom and restraint and the constant determination to place the interests of our country above all other interests, can we meet and solve the problems ahead of us.
Sentence 14: "The stake is large.
Sentence 15: Our great internal strength and our eminent position in the world are not, as some may too easily assume, indestructible.
Sentence 16: "I shall devote all my energy to the discharge of my duty with a full realization of the responsibility which results from the present state of affairs.
Sentence 17: I do not claim for myself and my associates greater devotion to the welfare of our Nation than I ascribe to others of another party.
Sentence 18: We take the same oath of office.
Sentence 19: We have at one time or another been equally willing to offer our lives in the defense of our country.
Sentence 20: I shall proceed, therefore, in the belief that the members of the Congress will discharge their duties with a full realization of their responsibility.
Sentence 21: "Inevitably, issues will arise between the President and the Congress.
Sentence 22: When this occurs, we must examine our respective positions with stern and critical analysis to exclude any attempt to tamper with the public interest in order to achieve personal or partisan advantage.
Sentence 23: "The change in the majority in the Congress does not alter our domestic or foreign interests or problems.
Sentence 24: In foreign affairs we have a well-charted course to follow.
Sentence 25: Our foreign policy has been developed and executed on a bi-partisan basis.
Sentence 26: I have done my best to strengthen and extend this practice.
Sentence 27: Members of both parties in and out of the Congress have participated in the inner council in preparing, and in actually carrying out, the foreign policies of our Government.
Sentence 28: It has been a national and not a party program.
Sentence 29: It will continue to be a national program in so far as the Secretary of State and I are concerned.
Sentence 30: I firmly believe that our Republican colleagues who have worked intelligently and cooperatively with us in the past will continue to do so in the future.
Sentence 31: "My concern is not about those in either party who know the seriousness of the problems which confront us in our foreign affairs.
Sentence 32: Those who share great problems are united and not divided by them.
Sentence 33: My concern is lest any in either party should seek in this field an opportunity to achieve personal notoriety or partisan advantage by exploitation of the sensational or by the mere creation of controversy.
Sentence 34: "We are set upon a hard course.
Sentence 35: An effort by either the executive or the legislative branch of the Government to embarrass the other for partisan gain would bring frustration to our country.
Sentence 36: To follow the course with honor to ourselves and with benefit to our country, we must look beyond and above ourselves and our party interests for the true bearing.
Sentence 37: "As President of the United States, I am guided by a simple formula: to do in all cases, from day to day, without regard to narrow political considerations, what seems to me to be best for the welfare of all our people.
Sentence 38: Our search for that welfare must always be based upon a progressive concept of government.
Sentence 39: "I shall cooperate in every proper manner with members of the Congress, and my hope and prayer is that this spirit of cooperation will be reciprocated.
Sentence 40: "To them, one and all, I pledge faith with faith, and a promise to meet good will with good will."
Sentence 41: Any questions ?
Sentence 42: [2.]
Sentence 43: Q. Will there continue to be regular conferences with the majority leadership, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 44: That matter will be attended to when the Congress meets.
Sentence 45: [3.]
Sentence 46: Q. Mr. President, shall we take this as your answer to Senator Fulbright?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 47: No comment.
Sentence 48: 1
1
As reported in the New York Times for November 7 Senator Fulbright had suggested that the President should appoint a Republican Secretary of State and then resign.
Sentence 49: On November 8 the Times reported that the Senator proposed to offer a constitutional amendment to enable the Congress to call a national election at any time in order to eliminate a lameduck President.
Sentence 50: [4.]
Sentence 51: Q. Mr. President, is there any particular significance to the rare presence of Secretary Forrestal here today?
Sentence 52: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 53: Ask him, there he sits!
Sentence 54: [Laughter]
Q. Is there, Mr. Secretary?
Secretary Forrestal: I lay an interdiction on Mr. Andrews for any kind of questions.
Sentence 55: [More laughter]
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 56: He just happened to be in the building and came in.
Sentence 57: [5.]
Sentence 58: Q. Mr. President, Mr. Basil Manly has proposed a year's industrial armistice between management and labor, to promote Production and--as he says--to save the country from chaos.
Sentence 59: Have you read that plan, and have you any comment?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 60: No, I haven't read the plan, but since August 14, 1945, I have been urging that very thing right here at this desk.
Sentence 61: A little late to get on the bandwagon.
Sentence 62: [6.]
Sentence 63: Q. Mr. President, there have been various rumors published and otherwise, that there would be further changes in the Cabinet this year.
Sentence 64: Have you anything to say about that?
Sentence 65: Do you know of any?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 66: None that I know of.
Sentence 67: Everybody seems to know more about it than I do.
Sentence 68: So far as I know there are no changes.
Sentence 69: [7.]
Sentence 70: Q. Along this line, there are--
Q.
Sentence 71: Mr. President, may I ask--
Q.--rumors current that General Eisenhower is about to resign because he can't seem to get together with the administration on how much money he should be permitted to spend.
Sentence 72: Have you any comment?
Sentence 73: THE PRESIDENT, No comment.
Sentence 74: I don't think that rumor has a bit of foundation in fact.
Sentence 75: [8.]
Sentence 76: Q. Mr. President, I was going to ask you about housing.
Sentence 77: Most people are not completely clear about the situation on housing, following your statement the other night, and Wyatt's statement.
Sentence 78: You said then he was going to make a report to you.
Sentence 79: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 80: That is true.
Sentence 81: He will make a report to me tomorrow.
Sentence 82: Q. Is there anything you can say now about the controls on housing which have to do with prices on houses, and rents?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 83: No.
Sentence 84: I thought that was made perfectly clear in the statement.
Sentence 85: Q.
Sentence 86: It was, but I find there is some confusion about it.
Sentence 87: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 88: Well, there shouldn't be.
Sentence 89: My statement still stands.
Sentence 90: [9.]
Sentence 91: Q. Mr. President, in connection with the change of control in the Senate, Mr. Leslie Biffle, his job goes to a Republican.
Sentence 92: Could we expect him in the vacancy of the Administrative Assistants that you have, sir?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 93: Well now, you had better talk to Mr. Biffle about that.
Sentence 94: I have no comment to make on that.
Sentence 95: [10.]
Sentence 96: Q. Mr. President, is there a possibility of a special session of Congress ?
Sentence 97: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 98: Not at the present time.
Sentence 99: I know of no reason why I should call the Congress into session.
Sentence 100: [11.]
Sentence 101: Q. Mr. President, is Paul Porter going back to the FCC ?
Sentence 102: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 103: I can't answer that question.
Sentence 104: [12.]
Sentence 105: Q. Mr. President, is Chester Bowles being considered for Ambassador to the Court of St. James ?
Sentence 106: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 107: Not that I know of.
Sentence 108: [Laughter]
Sentence 109: [13.]
Sentence 110: Q. Mr. President, a certain radio commentator last night said Mr. Ross would immediately resign.
Sentence 111: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 112: Mr. Ross is not going to resign.
Sentence 113: There have been all sorts of rumors about one or the other resigning.
Sentence 114: They all seem to know more about it than I do.
Sentence 115: Q.
Sentence 116: Is anybody going to resign, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 117: Not that I know of.
Sentence 118: Q.
Sentence 119: That's settled.
Sentence 120: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 121: Not that I know of.
Sentence 122: [Laughter]
Sentence 123: [14.]
Sentence 124: Q. Here's one that hasn't been asked for several weeks.
Sentence 125: Is there anything in the air on a Big Three or Big Four conference?
Sentence 126: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 127: No.
Sentence 128: No, the Big Four conference is going on in New York right now.
Sentence 129: Q. With the foreign ministers?
Sentence 130: I mean with the heads of states ?
Sentence 131: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 132: The Big Four conference is going on in New York now--
Q. But not--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 133: -- and it has my full backing.
Sentence 134: [15.]
Sentence 135: Q. Mr. President, you spoke there in your statement of people still exploiting sensationalism and starting controversies.
Sentence 136: Are you--you mean by that that you feel that that may run into investigations just for the sake of investigating, on the Hill?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 137: The statement speaks for itself.
Sentence 138: Reporter:
Sentence 139: Thank you, Mr. President.
Sentence 140: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 141: You're welcome.
