Sentence 1: 1946 The Presidents News Conference 481

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: [1.]
Sentence 3: Practically all the Cabinet officers, and heads of all the agencies, and the advisory committee set up by the Congress, have stated that the office being vacated by Mr. Snyder ought to be continued.
Sentence 4: And for that reason, I am appointing John Steelman to take over that job, and he will still continue to be the White House labor adviser, at the suggestion of the Secretary of Labor.
Sentence 5: That's the only announcement I have to make.
Sentence 6: Q. Mr. Steelman will be Director of OWMR?
Sentence 7: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 8: That's right.
Sentence 9: Q. Regular tide?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 10: That's right.
Sentence 11: [2.]
Sentence 12: Q. Mr. President, will Mr. Gardner remain Chairman of the Advisory Board?
Sentence 13: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 14: Max Gardner has been trying to resign ever since he was made Under Secretary of the Treasury, and we have so far been able to persuade him to ten main.
Sentence 15: I don't know whether he will stay or not.
Sentence 16: I would like to have him, of course, if he will.
Sentence 17: [3.]
Sentence 18: Q. Mr. President, will you sign the OPA?
Sentence 19: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 20: I can't answer that question until OPA is before me, and I don't know what will be in it.
Sentence 21: [4.]
Sentence 22: Q. Mr. President, do you think there will be a shipping strike tonight?
Sentence 23: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 24: No, I don't.
Sentence 25: I am informed by the Labor Department that there is a very good chance that it will be settled before the day is over.
Sentence 26: [5.]
Sentence 27: Q. Mr. President, have you reached any decision on the J. I. Case Company yet?
Sentence 28: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 29: I have it still under advisement.
Sentence 30: Q. Mr. President, does that apply to the Allis-Chalmers, too?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 31: The Allis-Chalmers people are still negotiating.
Sentence 32: They may be able to settle it without any interference from the Government; I hope they will be.
Sentence 33: [6.]
Sentence 34: Q. Mr. President, do you have any comment on the statement which Mr. Baruch is making today on the atomic energy control--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 35: Mr. Baruch has been informed of the policy of the President with regard to atomic energy, and I haven't seen his statement, but I imagine he is following the policy as it was outlined to him by myself and the Secretary of State.
Sentence 36: Q. Mr. President, is that policy outlined in the so-called Acheson-Lilienthal report?
Sentence 37: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 38: No.
Sentence 39: It's the policy outlined in the directive which I sent to Mr. Baruch.
Sentence 40: [7.]
Sentence 41: Q. Mr. President, in February, when you transmitted the Report of the National Advisory Council to Congress, you said you would recommend to Congress an increase of a billion and a quarter dollars in the Export-Import Bank's lending authority.
Sentence 42: Do you still plan to do that this session?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 43: I have not yet got to the point where I can consider that.
Sentence 44: [8.]
Sentence 45: Q. Mr. President, did you have any advance knowledge of Justice Jackson's statement ?
Sentence 46: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 47: Justice Jackson wired me on Sunday substantially what he released in Germany, and I suggested to him that he not release it until he had had a chance to talk with me.
Sentence 48: 1
1 The statement, released in Nuremberg, Germany, where Justice Jackson was on leave from the Supreme Court to serve as chief American prosecutor at the war crimes trials, was in the form of a cablegram to the Senate and House Judiciary Committees considering the nomination of Secretary of the Treasury Fred M. Vinson as Chief Justice.
Sentence 49: It concerned a much publicized feud within the Court, a controversy which Justice Jackson noted "goes to the reputation of the Court for nonpartisan and unbiased decision."
Sentence 50: The statement, dated June is printed in the Congressional Record (vol. 92, p. 6724).
Sentence 51: Q. Did he subsequently talk to you by telephone ?
Sentence 52: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 53: He did not.
Sentence 54: Q.
Sentence 55: He did not?
Going further on that, sir, do you agree with the many critics who are saying that Jackson and Black ought to resign from the Court, for the good of the Court and the country ?
Sentence 56: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 57: I have no comment on that.
Sentence 58: Q.
Sentence 59: In the background to that case, did Justice Black or any representative of Justice Black ever threaten at any time that Black would resign if you were to appoint Jackson ?
Sentence 60: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 61: I never discussed the appointment of the Chief Justice of the United States with any member of the Supreme Court.
Sentence 62: [9.]
Sentence 63: Q. Mr. President, any prospective change in the Ambassador to Ottawa?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 64: Not that I know of.
Sentence 65: [10.]
Sentence 66: Q. Mr. President, has there been any indication that Jackson might resign, or Black might resign?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 67: No.
Sentence 68: I have made no indications of that sort.
Sentence 69: [11.]
Sentence 70: Q. Mr. President, I have been asked to ask you if you have got any plans to make Mr. McNutt Ambassador to the Philippines ?
Sentence 71: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 72: I am going to appoint Mr. McNutt Ambassador to the Philippines.
Sentence 73: It will be going down today or tomorrow-very soon.
Sentence 74: He will be Ambassador--the first Ambassador to the Philippines.
Sentence 75: [12.]
Sentence 76: Q. Also, about Governor of Puerto Rico, do you have any news on that?
Sentence 77: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 78: No.
Sentence 79: I have nothing to say on that, about Puerto Rico.
Sentence 80: [13.]
Sentence 81: Q. Mr. President, were you correctly quoted by the Federal Council of Churches that you would recall Myron Taylor after the signing of the Italian peace treaty ?
Sentence 82: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 83: I don't think the word recall was used.
Sentence 84: Q. No.
Sentence 85: I stand corrected.
Sentence 86: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 87: I made the statement--I am not correcting you--they did say that-whoever did say that said recall--I made the statement to those ministers and bishops who were in here, representing all the Protestant churches, that Mr. Taylor had a special mission to perform.
Sentence 88: He was sent to Rome by President Roosevelt, to aid in keeping the peace; and I had sent him back, in order to aid in making the peace, and that when the purposes had been accomplished, there would be no official representative of the President at the Vatican.
Sentence 89: I don't know how long that will take.
Sentence 90: However long it takes, we will go through with the thing to the end.
Sentence 91: Q. Are you speaking now of the Italian peace?
Sentence 92: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 93: Peace in the world.
Sentence 94: [14.]
Sentence 95: Q. Mr. President, the British Foreign Minister, Mr. Bevin, made some very interesting remarks on the Palestine question the day before yesterday.
Sentence 96: Have you any comment on Mr. Bevin's apparent foreclosure on the plan to ship one hundred thousand Jews to Palestine?
Sentence 97: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 98: I haven't seen Mr. Bevin's statement, and it is not--it has not been officially communicated to me; so therefore I have no comment to make on it.
Sentence 99: We still are urging the entry of one hundred thousand of these refugee Jews in Germany to Palestine, and are endeavoring to arrive at a means by which that can be done.
Sentence 100: We are in communication with England now, for that purpose.
Sentence 101: Q. Mr. President, has any consideration ever been given to the fact that perhaps we would get along better with England on this subject if we made some gesture toward welcoming a few of these immigrants to the United States ?
Sentence 102: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 103: You know what the immigration laws of the United States are.
Sentence 104: We have to comply with them.
Sentence 105: Q.
Sentence 106: Any intention of recommending any change in the immigration laws--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 107: I do not.
Sentence 108: Q. Mr. President, are you going to publish whom you are going to send to England soon, to settle on what measures we are willing to take to facilitate this one hundred thousand movement?
Sentence 109: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 110: That's what this committee is going to England for, to discuss it with the English to see if we can arrive at an agreement.
Sentence 111: Q. Is that the Grady committee?
Sentence 112: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 113: The special committee that was appointed by the Executive order the other morning, consisting of the Secretary of War, Secretary of State, and Secretary of Treasury.
Sentence 114: Q. Are they going over there ?
Sentence 115: THE PRESIDENT, No, they are not.
Sentence 116: They will send representatives.
Sentence 117: 1
1 Executive Order 9735 "Establishing a Cabinet Committee on Palestine and Related Problems" (3 CFR, 1943-1948 Comp., p. 542) provided that each member of the Committee should designate an alternate to act for and in his behalf.
Sentence 118: Selected to serve on the Board of Alternates were Henry F. Grady, as alternate for the Secretary of State and designated Chairman, and Goldthwaite Dorr and Herbert Gaston, as alternates for the Secretaries of War and Treasury.
Sentence 119: [15.]
Sentence 120: Q. Mr. President, do you care to say what you will do about the emergency strike legislation, if it comes to you with the Case bill rider on it?
Sentence 121: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 122: I never comment on legislation until it is before me.
Sentence 123: Then I will analyze it, and I will let you know more about it.
Sentence 124: [16.]
Sentence 125: Q. Mr. President, Senators O'Mahoney and Overton proposed a plan under which the Federal Government contribution to the District would have some relationship to the amount of tax-exempt property-Government property--here; and also are proposing that the lump sum be raised from 6 to 10 million dollars a share.
Sentence 126: Have you any comment on that, sir?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 127: I am familiar with the so-called Overton plan.
Sentence 128: I was on the Appropriations Committee in the Senate when Senator Overton worked out that bill.
Sentence 129: I don't know anything about the new plan, but the suggestions and the equitable approach to it that the Overton plan followed is a good thing.
Sentence 130: I was in favor of the Overton plan when it was first suggested.
Sentence 131: Q.
Sentence 132: And what about the boost in the lump sum?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 133: The Overton plan contemplated the boost in the lump sum.
Sentence 134: Reporter:
Sentence 135: Thank you, Mr. President.
