Sentence 1: 1946 Address The Jackson Day Dinner

Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, fellow Democrats everywhere:
Throughout America this evening, we of the Democratic Party are gathered to reaffirm our faith in the ideals of democracy.
Sentence 2: We are assembled in some three hundred cities and towns to pledge ourselves again to the oldest and most practical principle in the history of men and nations--the democratic ideal in which America was conceived one hundred and seventy years ago.
Sentence 3: On this occasion, we pay honor to the memory of a great American leader, and a soldier of Democracy--Andrew Jackson.
Sentence 4: It was Andrew Jackson who led the good fight for social advancement and political progress against the forces of reaction.
Sentence 5: As the standard bearer of our party, Jackson made a living reality of the high democratic doctrines for which men of our Nation fought and died--the extension of basic rights to all men.
Sentence 6: Down through the years these doctrines have remained as guiding principles for the Democratic Party.
Sentence 7: More recently there appeared another champion of social justice to revive and revitalize these principles--Franklin Delano Roosevelt!
Sentence 8: If that great humanitarian were among us today, he would bring us a message of courage and faith.
Sentence 9: He would bring us a challenge to improve the lot of mankind everywhere.
Sentence 10: He would say, "Fight On"!
Sentence 11: We of the Democratic Party must meet that challenge.
Sentence 12: Even though tremendous progress has been made, we must continue to fight on to attain our basic objectives-human freedom and human security.
Sentence 13: This is one fight which we must and will win.
Sentence 14: Our Democratic Party became great and powerful as a progressive party--one pioneering in new social fields and determined to abolish the tragic inequities of the past.
Sentence 15: To hold our leadership, and the support of the American people, we must continually advance toward higher goals in keeping with our liberal heritage.
Sentence 16: Political parties are the instruments through which democracy works.
Sentence 17: Our party system remains as one of the massive foundations of our liberty.
Sentence 18: Only the free play of political opposition can guarantee the survival of civil freedom.
Sentence 19: Therefore, upon all of us rests a solemn responsibility to preserve our party system on a sound and wholesome basis.
Sentence 20: To achieve this, the leadership of all political parties must face the urgent issues frankly, and act solely in accordance with our national welfare.
Sentence 21: The Democratic Party has a long and proud record of achievement.
Sentence 22: But for continued success, we must live in the present and work for the future.
Sentence 23: As we seek to improve the social order, our policies must remain dynamic, ever sensitive to the impact of changing conditions.
Sentence 24: The domestic program of this Administration has been a program to make the system of free enterprise work.
Sentence 25: The Democratic Administration has been quick to seek out the danger spots which threaten the system of free enterprise--and remove them.
Sentence 26: In a very practical sense, it has made enterprise free where it was not free before, and it has encouraged private competition where there was only monopoly.
Sentence 27: We are seeking to establish higher standards of living--a new health program, a new educational and social security program, an increased minimum wage, adequate housing, a further development of our natural resources, and above all, a strong and progressive America now and for all time.
Sentence 28: Today America is in a period of transition.
Sentence 29: The aftermath of the war has brought new and pressing problems.
Sentence 30: Without question, one of the most serious of these problems is the danger of a disastrous inflation and subsequent depression in our country.
Sentence 31: Unless we can keep prices and rents under control until we have normal production flowing from our factories, our economic stability is in peril.
Sentence 32: But we Americans have every right to be confident of our ability to check inflation and to get production going full blast.
Sentence 33: During the war, in spite of the greatest inflationary pressures in our history, we learned that the cost of living could be kept in line.
Sentence 34: We must do as well in time of peace.
Sentence 35: Our progress toward that goal has been delayed by technical bottlenecks that must be expected in reconverting our gigantic industrial machine from war to peacetime production.
Sentence 36: But it is also being delayed, even more seriously, by doubt, fear, and in some cases just plain selfishness.
Sentence 37: To break both the technical and psychological bottlenecks, your administration announced last month a new policy concerning wages and prices.
Sentence 38: That plan is now going into operation.
Sentence 39: I am confident that it will pave the way for the greatest outpouring of consumer goods that the world has ever seen.
Sentence 40: It gives all of us--businessmen, workers, and farmers--assurance that wage and price adjustments will be made quickly when needed.
Sentence 41: With the knowledge that all groups in this country are assured a fair and equitable return, we can expedite our vast production job, and still hold the line against runaway rents, soaring prices, and prohibitive business costs.
Sentence 42: Whenever conflicts between selfish and national interests arise, our country must come first.
Sentence 43: We will never permit our national welfare to be wrecked upon the rock of special privilege.
Sentence 44: Only by dedicating ourselves to the principle of national unity can we keep America strong and free.
Sentence 45: And this same basic principle applies to the Democratic Party.
Sentence 46: As in the Nation at large, there is diversity of opinion among us, but the fundamental principles of the Democratic Party bind us together in a unity of purpose--an inflexible determination that our party shall advance to new and greater achievements.
Sentence 47: In order to accomplish this, we must keep faith with the American people.
Sentence 48: They have given us grave responsibilities.
Sentence 49: And we Democrats must continue to merit the confidence of our people.
Sentence 50: This administration will not be found wanting!
Sentence 51: Under our party system, political responsibility must rest with the President and with the majority in the Congress.
Sentence 52: To meet this responsibility, all our members in Congress must cooperate wholeheartedly and help carry out our party platform.
Sentence 53: Unless this is done, the party program is delayed.
Sentence 54: I cannot make too strong my plea for party unity and party responsibility!
Sentence 55: Under our Democratic leadership we have set a goal of 2,700,000 new homes by the end of 1947--the greatest home construction program in the history of this or any other country.
Sentence 56: We have proposed legislation for this task.
Sentence 57: That legislation is now before Congress.
Sentence 58: I have strongly urged its prompt enactment.
Sentence 59: In this connection, there are two proposed amendments pending to the housing measure which also are of vital importance:
Sentence 60: One to provide premium payments for expanded production of materials, the other to prevent further speculation in existing housing.
Sentence 61: There is constant pressure for an increase in the price of building materials.
Sentence 62: No one questions that some adjustments--both up and down--are needed, if we are to complete our building program at full speed.
Sentence 63: But price increases all along the line are clearly out of the question.
Sentence 64: The price of homes is already too high.
Sentence 65: We must stimulate home building by methods which will not send prices skyrocketing far beyond the means of the average citizen.
Sentence 66: That is the reason for premium payments, which would be used to break bottlenecks.
Sentence 67: The price controls we advocate are aimed specifically at halting further inflation in real estate.
Sentence 68: We urge that the future sale price of any home be made the ceiling price on that home for the duration of the emergency.
Sentence 69: Under this plan, any home-owner could sell his property in a free and open market.
Sentence 70: However, such property could not then be resold by a speculator for a higher price resulting in a quick and unearned profit.
Sentence 71: The veterans returning from battlefronts all over the world deserve the opportunity to obtain homes--and at reasonable prices.
Sentence 72: They must not become the victims of speculators.
Sentence 73: I am satisfied that the American people intend to give them a fair break.
Sentence 74: I am convinced that the Veterans Emergency Housing program can and will succeed.
Sentence 75: My friends in Congress have got to make a choice.
Sentence 76: They have got to make up their minds whether they are for the veterans' rights, or whether they are going to bow to the real estate lobby!
Sentence 77: The problem of reconversion involves much more than a physical changeover to the production of civilian goods.
Sentence 78: Our financial policies are also being adapted to meet our new peacetime needs.
Sentence 79: These policies will help greatly in maintaining high levels of production, employment, and national income.
Sentence 80: We are on our way to a balanced budget and further reduction in the public debt.
Sentence 81: Full production, maximum employment, and a high national income will make this sound program possible.
Sentence 82: In the end, that is the only way to meet the Government's financial obligations and at the same time lessen the taxpayer's burden.
Sentence 83: No phase of economic life has been so completely disrupted as our international economic relations.
Sentence 84: During the war, the bulk of foreign trade was done by or for governments.
Sentence 85: Here, too, there must be reconversion.
Sentence 86: World trade must be restored-and it must be returned to private enterprise.
Sentence 87: We need a world in which all countries can do business with each other, and with us.
Sentence 88: That means giving other countries a chance to reconstruct their war-shattered lands.
Sentence 89: It also means maintaining orderly exchange arrangements through the cooperation of the United Nations.
Sentence 90: Already we have made substantial progress.
Sentence 91: Only just a few days ago, at Savannah, Ga., the International Bank and the International Monetary Fund, created at Bretton Woods, became organized institutions.
Sentence 92: The financial policies we are following are adapted to the needs of our time.
Sentence 93: I feel confident that they will help make this a strong and sound country in a free and progressive world.
Sentence 94: The United States of America has achieved world leadership.
Sentence 95: For that result the Democratic Party, as the party of enlightened internationalism, is primarily responsible.
Sentence 96: We must maintain that leadership.
Sentence 97: And the Democratic Party must continue to lead the way.
Sentence 98: A tremendous price has been paid for the peace and security we Americans enjoy tonight.
Sentence 99: Payment began long ago by our brave allies, who first bore the brunt of all-out aggression.
Sentence 100: At that time, our isolationists were still debating, and almost defeating, most efforts of the Democratic leaders to improve our national defense.
Sentence 101: I say, without any partisan rancor, the cold record clearly reveals that our political opponents voted overwhelmingly against the most essential defense measures.
Sentence 102: Of course, when subsequent events proved beyond question their shortsightedness, most of our opponents changed their policy.
Sentence 103: Yet many Republicans, of all people, then charged the Democratic Administration with failure to prepare more adequately for events which they themselves said would never occur!
Sentence 104: Do you remember, back there, when the Republicans called it a "phony" war?
Sentence 105: Let us be tolerant, however, of the inconsistencies of man.
Sentence 106: Let us rather concentrate upon the urgent problems before us.
Sentence 107: America must lead the way to a better world order.
Sentence 108: We seek increasingly close friendship with all nations.
Sentence 109: We shall strengthen the foundations of the United Nations.
Sentence 110: Surely, we shall never retreat merely because of the dangers along the road to peace and progress.
Sentence 111: Despite opposition and all difficulties, we shall attain our goal--a prosperous and a peaceful world.
Sentence 112: At home every one of us should subordinate the differences of the past to expedite the progress of the future.
Sentence 113: Let us devote ourselves to the important problems of peace, and to the promotion of the general welfare.
Sentence 114: They go hand in hand.
Sentence 115: Without lasting peace in the world, prosperity and security at home become temporary illusions.
Sentence 116: And a repetition of such a tragedy as another war must not occur!
Sentence 117: The solution of the tremendous social problems of our day should not be a partisan affair.
Sentence 118: No one class, group, or party can hope to solve all the complicated problems facing this Nation.
Sentence 119: Their solution requires the wholehearted cooperation of every element within our great country.
Sentence 120: And America will reach its high destiny only if we remain strongly united in the endless quest for justice.
Sentence 121: Above and beyond all political considerations, Americans deeply yearn for a sound and lasting peace.
Sentence 122: Not merely the future of our political parties is at stake in the coming peace settlements.
Sentence 123: The future welfare of the country is at stake.
Sentence 124: The happiness and the lives of your children and mine are at stake.
Sentence 125: For their sake, for America, for all humanity, let us rededicate ourselves to the noble cause of peace.
Sentence 126: As in Jackson's time, we Americans must continue to live courageously.
Sentence 127: We should emulate the valor and the determination of our forefathers--those brave men who conquered the physical frontiers of this vast continent.
Sentence 128: The modern economic, political and social frontiers, which still confront all of us, offer an even greater challenge to our moral stamina and our intellectual integrity.
Sentence 129: This challenge also must be met.
Sentence 130: This victory must be won.
Sentence 131: I am confident that, with Divine guidance, no problem on earth exists that will not yield to the intelligence, courage, and eternal faith of free men.
