Sentence 1: 1946 Remarks Delegates Boys Nation 0

IT IS NICE to have you boys here as our guests this morning.
Sentence 2: I am familiar with what you are trying to do, because I am doing it.
Sentence 3: In Missouri, some years ago, I was interested in the Boys State and I think its expansion into the national picture is a good thing.
Sentence 4: The welfare of the United States in the next 25 or 30 years is going to be in your hands--the hands of the young men who are now growing up and going to high school and college.
Sentence 5: You should know all that it is possible to know about the operations of your Government.
Sentence 6: When people ask what the Government of the United States is, it is you.
Sentence 7: The Government is the people.
Sentence 8: We only represent what we believe to be the opinion of the majority of the people.
Sentence 9: When I act as President of the United States, when we act as Senators, when we act as Congressmen, we are merely expressing what we believe to be the views of the majority.
Sentence 10: When the majority is overturned, the other fellow gets a chance to express his views.
Sentence 11: And that is what constitutes a Republic.
Sentence 12: Our Government is the government of a Republic--delegated powers, diffused powers, legislative powers, executive powers, judicial powers, all separate and independent, which makes it very difficult for an individual to be persecuted under our system.
Sentence 13: I have been studying it ever since I was your age, and I don't think a finer system has ever been created in the history of the world.
Sentence 14: Those gentlemen who met in Philadelphia to build a Constitution of the United States wrought much better, I think, than they knew.
Sentence 15: They were young men, most of them.
Sentence 16: There was Benjamin Franklin, of course, but the average age was in the forties, and they worked for the setting up of a Republic that would work.
Sentence 17: Now that Republic is working, as you have seen demonstrated here since you have been here.
Sentence 18: It will continue to work just as long as you want it to work.
Sentence 19: I think it's good for a thousand years.
Sentence 20: I hope so.
Sentence 21: It has been a pleasure to have you up here this morning to greet you on the White House grounds.
Sentence 22: Right over there in that rose garden is where all the pictures are taken of distinguished guests.
Sentence 23: The rose garden wasn't quite big enough to hold this gathering, so we picked this corner so that everybody could get up close to the President.
Sentence 24: If you will all come by here, I will be glad to shake hands with each one of you.
