Sentence 1: 1946 The Presidents News Conference 432

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: [1.]
Sentence 3: I have some reports I want to call your attention to.
Sentence 4: The Evaluation Board of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has put out a preliminary report, and the President's Evaluation Commission, headed by Senator Hatch, has put out a preliminary report, which I think is in the hands of most of you.
Sentence 5: Those of you who haven't it-those reports, they are available for distribution.
Sentence 6: They are merely preliminary reports, and do not go into details.
Sentence 7: [2.]
Sentence 8: Then I have a very important report by Mr. Steelman's office--Mr. Steelman's report for this quarter, and it's--I would like to emphasize one or two things in it, if you like.
Sentence 9: This is also available-this is a statement, and I just want to take one or two things out of it for you:
Sentence 10: Production by midyear reached the highest level ever attained in peacetime.
Sentence 11: More people are working now than ever before--four and a half million more than in 1941, our highest prewar year.
Sentence 12: Although public attention was focused on the soft coal and railroad strikes, the great majority of workers remained on their jobs.
Sentence 13: Fewer man-days of idleness due to industrial disputes were recorded during the last quarter than in the first 3 months of this year.
Sentence 14: Our people are earning more money and they are purchasing a greater volume of goods than ever before in peacetime.
Sentence 15: We are meeting in full our commitments to ship food to the starving peoples of the world.
Sentence 16: We have made more progress than many thought possible toward providing new houses for our people.
Sentence 17: Certainly, up to this point, runaway inflation has been prevented.
Sentence 18: But as the seventh report of the Reconversion Director points out, all of the ground we have so laboriously won against inflation will be lost without workable price control.
Sentence 19: Every day that passes without a price control law on the books increases that danger.
Sentence 20: Now I am ready for questions.
Sentence 21: [3.]
Sentence 22: Q. Mr. President, would you sign the OPA extension bill as it was reported out by the Banking Committee, without meat control--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 23: Do you know what the OPA extension bill was in the last 5 minutes?
Sentence 24: What was the last amendment?
Sentence 25: I can't tell you what I will do with the OPA bill until it gets before me, because nobody knows what it's going to be.
Sentence 26: [4.]
Sentence 27: Q. Mr. President, are you considering former Mayor Thomas Holling of Buffalo for Governor of Puerto Rico?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 28: No.
Sentence 29: Somebody may have recommended him, and I haven't--the letter may not yet have reached me.
Sentence 30: [5.]
Sentence 31: Q. Mr. President, did you discuss politics with Paul Fitzpatrick?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 32: Why certainly.
Sentence 33: That's what Paul Fitzpatrick came in here for, and I was glad to discuss politics with him.
Sentence 34: Q.
Sentence 35: Can you say anything about it?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 36: He is very well educated in politics.
Sentence 37: No, I have no comment to make.
Sentence 38: Q. Mr. President, after he left, he said that in behalf of the New York delegation he had asked you to issue another appeal to Great Britain concerning Palestine.
Sentence 39: Have you any intention of issuing such an appeal ?
Sentence 40: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 41: The Cabinet committees of Great Britain and the United States are now meeting on the implementation of the report of the Commission, and I have no comment to make at the present time.
Sentence 42: [6.]
Sentence 43: Q. Have you any comment, Mr. President, now on your endorsement of Senator Mead--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 44: No.
Q.-- as candidate for Governor
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 45: Well, let's wait a little while to see about that.
Sentence 46: [7.]
Sentence 47: Q. Do you consider your letter to Senator Wheeler an endorsement of the primary campaign--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 48: No. Senator Wheeler's-not necessarily an endorsement.
Sentence 49: You can translate it that way, if you like.
Sentence 50: Senator Wheeler's--the opponent of Senator Wheeler--the manager of Senator Wheeler's campaign opponent issued a mimeographed letter which was an attack on me, and a vicious attack on Wheeler.
Sentence 51: It was so palpably untrue that I couldn't let it pass by without comment, so I wrote Senator Wheeler a letter about it.
Sentence 52: Q. Mr. President, if you are only going to deal with politics in your own State, why did--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 53: I didn't say that.
Sentence 54: I said that in the primaries I dealt with politics only in Missouri.
Sentence 55: I am dealing with politics in every State in the Union.
Sentence 56: Q.
Sentence 57: What can you tell us, then, about-[laughter]--about what Fitzpatrick said about New York State politics?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 58: I have no comment to make on that.
Sentence 59: [8.]
Sentence 60: Q. Mr. President, in connection with Puerto Rico, would you care to comment on the recommendation of the legislature of Puerto Rico, that the Resident Commissioner Pifiero be named to succeed Tugwell ?
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 62: I have received that recommendation, and I am glad to get it.
Sentence 63: I have been trying to find a Puerto Rican who could act as Governor of Puerto Rico.
Sentence 64: Q. How near are you--is that decision pretty near, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 65: No.
Sentence 66: I haven't made a decision as yet.
Sentence 67: I will let you know immediately, when I make it.
Sentence 68: [9.]
Sentence 69: Q. Mr. President, up on Capitol Hill there's a rumor--report to the effect that you expect to call a special session of Congress at the conclusion of this one, if they haven't finished your suggested program.
Sentence 70: Would you care to comment?
Sentence 71: Do you intend to do so?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 72: I have no comment on that.
Sentence 73: That's the first I've heard of it.
Sentence 74: [10.]
Sentence 75: Q. Mr. President, what do you think of the current activities of the Mead investigating committee ?
Sentence 76: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 77: They came up here, all the members of the committee--that is, most of them, Republicans and Democrats--and told me that they had some evidence on unconscionable war profits, and asked if they would have the cooperation of the administration in ferreting out these profits.
Sentence 78: And I told them they would have the full cooperation of the administration in that endeavor.
Sentence 79: Q.
Sentence 80: They have it now?
Sentence 81: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 82: They have that cooperation.
Sentence 83: Q. Did they ask you for permission to look at the tax returns ?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 84: They have not yet, but I imagine that they will; and if they have justification enough for them to be looked at, they will be given that permission.
Sentence 85: [11.]
Sentence 86: Q. Mr. President, Charlie Ross has told us on several occasions that you have been in touch by telephone with Mr. Byrnes at Paris?
Sentence 87: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 88: Yes.
Sentence 89: Q. Is there anything that you could let us have in reflection, on what progress was made there?
Sentence 90: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 91: Well, there is nothing that transpired between Mr. Byrnes and myself that hasn't been in the newspapers.
Sentence 92: He will be home very shortly, and will immediately make a statement on the Paris conference, and I would prefer that he make the comments, because he was there.
Q.
Sentence 93: The fact that he will be home very shortly would seem to indicate that he does not expect to go very much farther--deeper at this point into the German question, since they have only begun--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 94: I can't answer that.
Sentence 95: You will have to ask Mr. Byrnes about that.
Sentence 96: Reporter:
Sentence 97: Thank you, Mr. President.
