Sentence 1: 1947 Address The Jefferson Day Dinner

Mr. Speaker--to me you will always be Mr. Speaker--fellow Democrats:
Our meeting together this evening carries forward an old party custom.
Sentence 2: In this annual tribute to the memory of Thomas Jefferson, we, who are members of the party he founded--the Democratic Party--take great pride and feel deep satisfaction.
Sentence 3: We know that as long as we remain free, the spirit of Thomas Jefferson lives in America.
Sentence 4: His spirit is the spirit of freedom.
Sentence 5: We are heartened by the knowledge that the light he kindled a century and a half ago shines today, in the United States.
Sentence 6: It shines even more strongly and steadily than in his time.
Sentence 7: What was then an untried faith is now a living reality.
Sentence 8: But we know that no class, no party, no nation, has a monopoly on Jefferson's principles- Out of the silence of oppressed peoples, out of the despair of those who have lost freedom, there comes to us an expression of longing.
Sentence 9: Repeated again and again, in many tongues, from many directions, it is a plea of men, women, and children for the freedom that Thomas Jefferson proclaimed as an inalienable right.
Sentence 10: When we hear the cry for freedom arising from the shores beyond our own, we can take heart from the words of Thomas Jefferson.
Sentence 11: In his letter to President Monroe, urging the adoption of what we now know as the Monroe Doctrine, he wrote:
"Nor is the occasion to be slighted which this proposition offers of declaring our protest against the atrocious violations of the rights of nations by the interference of any one in the internal affairs of another.
Sentence 12: "
We, like Jefferson, have witnessed atrocious violations of the rights of nations.
Sentence 13: We, too, have regarded them as occasions not to be slighted.
Sentence 14: We, too, have declared our protest.
Sentence 15: We must make that protest effective by aiding those peoples whose freedoms are endangered by foreign pressures.
Sentence 16: We must take a positive stand.
Sentence 17: It is no longer enough merely to say "we don't want war."
Sentence 18: We must act in time--ahead of time--to stamp out the smoldering beginnings of any conflict that may threaten to spread over the world.
Sentence 19: We know how the fire starts.
Sentence 20: We have seen it before--aggression by the strong against the weak, openly by the use of armed force and secretly by infiltration.
Sentence 21: We know how the fire spreads.
Sentence 22: And we know how it ends.
Sentence 23: Let us not underestimate the task before us.
Sentence 24: The burden of our responsibility today is greater, even considering the size and resources of our expanded Nation, than it was in the time of Jefferson and Monroe.
Sentence 25: For the peril to man's freedom that existed then exists now on a much smaller earth--an earth whose broad oceans have shrunk and whose natural protections have been taken away by new weapons of destruction.
Sentence 26: What is the responsibility that we must assume ?
Sentence 27: Our responsibility is to stand guard before the edifice of lasting peace which, after so long a time, is at last being built.
Sentence 28: That edifice is the United Nations.
Sentence 29: The function of the United Nations is to quench the flames wherever they may break out; to watch throughout the world and extinguish every spark that comes from a difference between governments; to do this, if possible, through the machinery of peaceful arbitration, but to do it in any case.
Sentence 30: This is so, even if armed conflict must be prevented by the use of an international police force.
Sentence 31: We believe that formula is sound and workable.
Sentence 32: Our faith in it is strong and resolute.
Sentence 33: The United Nations is man's hope of putting out, and keeping out, the fires of war for all time.
Sentence 34: In supporting the United Nations we must, when necessary, supplement its activities.
Sentence 35: By aiding free nations to maintain their freedom we strengthen the United Nations in the performance of its functions.
Sentence 36: The foreign policy of this country transcends in importance any other question confronting us.
Sentence 37: It would be fatal if it were to become the subject of narrow political consideration.
Sentence 38: Our foreign policy must not be wrecked on the rocks of partisanship.
Sentence 39: United support of a policy that serves the interests of the Nation as a whole must be our aim.
Sentence 40: I wish to commend the efforts of those members of both parties who have worked, side by side, to achieve this goal.
Sentence 41: To meet the responsibilities placed upon us today this Nation must be strong.
Sentence 42: A strong United States means a country that maintains a military power commensurate with its responsibilities.
Sentence 43: It means a country of sound domestic economy.
Sentence 44: It means a country that holds its place in the forefront of industrial production and continues its leadership in creating the techniques of abundance.
Sentence 45: It means, most of all, a strong, united, confident people, clear in the knowledge of their country's destiny, unshaken and unshakable in their resolve to live in a world of free peoples at peace.
Sentence 46: No matter how great our military potential may be, military potential alone is not enough.
Sentence 47: It is necessary that we maintain sufficient military strength to convince the world that we intend to meet our responsibilities.
Sentence 48: Now, what of our domestic economy?
Sentence 49: How strong are we at home?
Sentence 50: As we appraise our domestic scene--our mighty array of factories, mines, farms, producing at or near capacity, and with employment at an all time high--our doubts, if we had any, are put at rest.
Sentence 51: We are viewing a panorama of prosperity--such prosperity as no generation of Americans before us ever experienced.
Sentence 52: You may recall hearing dire predictions, in the last year and a half--predictions that the United States was heading into an economic crackup, predictions of glutted markets, of a great deflationary plunge.
Sentence 53: It is significant that the most pessimistic cries of calamity came from men who had little confidence in our American system of free enterprise.
Sentence 54: They were wrong in their predictions.
Sentence 55: They were wrong because they do not understand the strength of our system of free competitive enterprise.
Sentence 56: Under that system, each man is free to go where he likes, to follow the calling of his choice, and to be rewarded in proportion to the productivity of the effort or the property he contributes.
Sentence 57: Insofar as we insure that each individual has the opportunity and inducement to make the largest contribution he can to this country's total production, we not only strengthen our Nation against any possible encroachments, but we also set an example to all other peoples of the desirability of free government in the economic as well as the political sense.
Sentence 58: Our country's financial stamina was tested in the recent war as it had never been tested before.
Sentence 59: But in spite of the tremendous cost of the war, we emerged with our financial leadership in the economic world greater than ever before.
Sentence 60: Beyond making our best effort to eliminate waste in the conduct of the war, the cost of the war was not a matter within our power to control.
Sentence 61: We emerged bearing a burden of debt, representing that cost, and what we do with that burden is a question of tremendous import, but fortunately it is a question that we have the power to decide for ourselves.
Sentence 62: The first decision that we made was to reduce Federal Government spending as quickly as possible.
Sentence 63: The extent of retrenchments by the Government is shown by the record.
Sentence 64: In the fiscal year 1945 the Federal Government spent $100 billion.
Sentence 65: In 1946 we cut expenditures to $64 billion.
Sentence 66: In 1947 we have further reduced expenditures to an estimated figure of $42 billion.
Sentence 67: The budget for the next fiscal year, which I have sent to the Congress, totals $37.5 billion.
Sentence 68: Not only have we greatly reduced expenditures, but we have made tremendous progress toward the elimination of deficits.
Sentence 69: In the fiscal year 1945, the Federal Government had a deficit of over $53 billion.
Sentence 70: In the fiscal year 1946 it was in the red about $21 billion.
Sentence 71: But now we have worked our way into the black, and I am happy to be able to say tonight that for the present fiscal year 1947 we shall balance the budget and we shall have a surplus.
Sentence 72: That was done without any Republican help!
Sentence 73: I am determined that stringent economy shall govern all peacetime operations of the Government.
Sentence 74: When the several departments and agencies were called upon, a few months ago, to submit their requests for funds for the coming fiscal year, they were told of my determination.
Sentence 75: They responded by eliminating many of their former activities.
Sentence 76: This was not enough.
Sentence 77: When the estimates were in, I went over them, making further substantial reductions.
Sentence 78: When I finished, these department estimates had been reduced by a total of some $7 billion under their original level.
Sentence 79: I was warned by some that I was going too far.
Sentence 80: I was aware of the risk.
Sentence 81: But I was aware, too, of the greater risk of a weakened postwar financial structure.
Sentence 82: I knew that in the public interest, sacrifices of some Government services had to be made.
Sentence 83: The result was a budget of $37.5 billion.
Sentence 84: That figure marked the borderline beyond which we could not reduce the activities of our Government without entering the area of false economy.
Sentence 85: In other words, further so-called "economies" would not have been economies at all.
Sentence 86: They would merely have meant curtailment of services that would cost our taxpayers--all taxpayers--more than the reduction in cost that appeared on the surface.
Sentence 87: You, my fellow citizens, are properly cautious of false economy in your daily lives.
Sentence 88: If the foundation of your house needs repair, or if the roof leaks, you know that you are wasting money, not saving it, by failing to make that repair.
Sentence 89: So with Government.
Sentence 90: If we abandon our work of reclamation, of soil conservation, of preserving our forests, of developing our water resources, we are wasting money, not saving it.
Sentence 91: If we cease our vigilance along the borders of our country and at our ports of entry, we are wasting money, not saving it.
Sentence 92: If we falsely economize by reducing the staff of men and women who audit tax returns, or who increase the country's productivity by settling labor disputes, we are wasting money, not saving it.
Sentence 93: If we cut down the effectiveness of our Armed Forces, we run the risk of wasting both money and lives.
Sentence 94: Any substantial reduction of the 1948 Federal budget, as submitted to the Congress, must be clearly understood by the American people as a venture into false economy.
Sentence 95: To the extent that we countenance any such reduction, we shall weaken our own house by our refusal to keep it in basic repair.
Sentence 96: At best, this is poor judgment.
Sentence 97: At worst, it is an invitation to disaster.
Sentence 98: The second decision we must make, affecting the strength and health of our economy, concerns the public debt.
Sentence 99: We must resolve to begin the long process of reducing that debt, which represents a large part of the cost of winning World War II.
Sentence 100: That debt amounts to almost $2,000 for every man, woman, and child in the United States.
Sentence 101: In deciding whether we shall start substantial payment on the debt, or whether we shall reduce taxes instead, we are deciding a question which will affect the future of every one of us.
Sentence 102: Our decision will affect the number of jobs in the future, the wages men and women will earn, what those wages will buy, and how much our savings, our insurance, and our bonds will be worth.
Sentence 103: We, as a Nation, are now having prosperous years.
Sentence 104: This is the time when we must start paying off the debt in earnest.
Sentence 105: When a man is earning good wages, and at the same time owes a lot of money, he is wise if he uses his excess income to pay off his debts.
Sentence 106: He would be shortsighted if he cut his income just because he was not spending it all at the moment.
Sentence 107: When the people, through their Government, owe a lot of money--as we do today--it is the course of wisdom to make payment on our debt.
Sentence 108: It would be extremely shortsighted to cut down the Federal revenue without making a real effort toward debt reduction.
Sentence 109: I recognize, frankly, that the present burden of taxation on our people is too heavy to be considered as permanent, and at a proper time I will support tax reduction and tax readjustment designed to reduce the burden and to adjust that burden to the needs of a peacetime economy.
Sentence 110: In further evaluating the strength of our domestic economy, I must express to you my deep concern over the level of prices prevailing today.
Sentence 111: A system of free enterprise does not automatically work out its own adjustments without our giving thought to the process.
Sentence 112: The main factor that can weaken our economy at this time is our own selfishness-the kind of selfishness which is now expressed in the form of unnecessarily high prices for many commodities and for many manufactured articles.
Sentence 113: These prices must be brought down if our entire economy is not to suffer.
Sentence 114: With the exception of a very few items, all price controls have been removed.
Sentence 115: But freedom from such controls, like other freedoms, cannot be abused with impunity.
Sentence 116: A profound moral responsibility rests upon those citizens whose decisions have widespread effect on our markets--to put it simply, the responsibility of playing fair, of not going whole hog for profits.
Sentence 117: The alternative is inflation, industry priced out of the market and, eventually, men priced out of their jobs.
Sentence 118: The world today looks to us for leadership.
Sentence 119: The force of events makes it necessary that we assume that role.
Sentence 120: This is a critical period of our national life.
Sentence 121: The process of adapting ourselves to the new concept of our world responsibility is naturally a difficult and painful one.
Sentence 122: The cost is necessarily great.
Sentence 123: It is not our nature to shirk our obligations.
Sentence 124: We have a heritage that constitutes the greatest resource of this Nation.
Sentence 125: I call it the spirit and character of the American people.
Sentence 126: We are the people who gave the world George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Jackson, Abraham Lincoln, Woodrow Wilson, and Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Sentence 127: We are a people who not only cherish freedom and defend it, if need be with our lives, but we also recognize the right of other men and other nations to share it.
Sentence 128: While the struggle for the rights of man goes forward in other parts of the world, the free people of America cannot look on with easy detachment, with indifference to the outcome.
Sentence 129: In our effort to make permanent the peace of the world, we have much to preserve-much to improve--and much to pioneer.
Sentence 130: As we strive to reach the fulfillment of our quest we will do well to recall the words of Thomas Jefferson:
"I have sworn, upon the altar of God, eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man."
