Sentence 1: 1947 Address Mexico City

Mr. President, distinguished guests:
My presence here today as the guest of the great Republic of Mexico is one of the truly happy occasions of my career.
Sentence 2: I might say, incidentally, that I never had such a welcome in my life.
Sentence 3: I am deeply moved to be here again, among my friends and neighbors.
Sentence 4: I have wanted to return to Mexico ever since November 1939, when I visited this city and enjoyed the memorable hospitality of the Mexican Congress.
Sentence 5: To my good friend President Miguel Aleman, and to all the people of Mexico, I say from the bottom of my heart: Thank you for your gracious welcome.
Sentence 6: It is a common failing of many people to complain of hardships and overlook their good fortune.
Sentence 7: In the international sphere, many people emphasize the disagreements that separate nations and forget the large areas of agreement that bring nations together in mutual understanding.
Sentence 8: It would be foolish to pretend that fundamental differences in political philosophies do not exist.
Sentence 9: The task of achieving permanent peace and security for all mankind is not easy, but I am certain that permanent peace and security are the goal of all peoples everywhere, whatever their language, or nationality, race, or creed.
Sentence 10: Because of my belief that the peoples of the world have peace as a common objective, I refuse to be discouraged by apparent difficulties.
Sentence 11: Difficulties are a challenge to men of determination.
Sentence 12: Mr. President, you refer to 1847.
Sentence 13: We did have tragic difficulties then.
Sentence 14: In fact, we had difficulties with our northern neighbor Canada in 1814.
Sentence 15: We also had a terrible quarrel between our own States.
Sentence 16: But, Mr. president, we have learned the hard way that peace is best at home and abroad with our neighbors.
Sentence 17: We have fought two world wars within a generation.
Sentence 18: We have found that the victor loses in total war as well as the vanquished.
Sentence 19: If a realistic view of the world takes full account of the differences that separate nations, it must also take full account of the common beliefs that unite nations.
Sentence 20: Nowhere is this element of unity--unity of heart and mind--more evident than in the neighborly community of the American Republics.
Sentence 21: Here we recognize clearly that, as you have stated so concisely and eloquently, Mr. President, "together we must live and together we must prosper."
Sentence 22: Therefore, we must have world peace.
Sentence 23: Here in the Western Hemisphere we have already achieved in substantial measure what the world as a whole must achieve.
Sentence 24: Through what we call our Inter-American System, which has become steadily stronger for half a century, we have learned to work together to solve our problems by friendly cooperation and mutual respect.
Sentence 25: We have a good-neighbor policy in common and, as a result of this sincere application of that policy, we form a good neighborhood.
Sentence 26: Our example has a salutary effect upon the whole world.
Sentence 27: The success of our cherished Inter-American System is a source of inspiration for the developing system of the United Nations, of which we are all members.
Sentence 28: We are united by more than the common procedures and agencies of inter-American cooperation.
Sentence 29: All our peoples have a common belief which we call democracy.
Sentence 30: Democracy has a spiritual foundation because it is based upon the brotherhood of man.
Sentence 31: We believe in the dignity of the individual.
Sentence 32: We believe that the function of the state is to preserve and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Sentence 33: We believe that the state exists for the benefit of man, not man for the benefit of the state.
Sentence 34: Everything else that we mean by the word democracy arises from this fundamental conviction.
Sentence 35: We believe that each individual must have as much liberty for the conduct of his life as is compatible with the rights of others.
Sentence 36: To put this belief into practice is the essential purpose of our laws.
Sentence 37: We know that the maximum freedom and dignity of the individual cannot be attained under a dictatorship.
Sentence 38: Freedom and dignity of the individual can be attained only under a system of law which protects the rights of individuals, and through a government made up of freely elected representatives of the people.
Sentence 39: When we have this, we have a democratic government--one that is suited to the democratic way of life.
Sentence 40: This is a simple, fundamental truth.
Sentence 41: The good-neighbor policy, which guides the course of our inter-American relations, is equally simple.
Sentence 42: It is the application of democracy to international affairs.
Sentence 43: It is the application of the Golden Rule.
Sentence 44: The good-neighbor policy applies to international relations the same standards of conduct that prevail among self-respecting individuals within a democratic community.
Sentence 45: It is based upon mutual respect among nations, the respect that each accords to the rights of the other, without distinction of size, wealth, or power.
Sentence 46: It is an expression of that bond of common belief which we call democracy.
Sentence 47: It is the only road into the future that will lead us to our goal of universal peace and security.
Sentence 48: Along that road we shall persevere.
Sentence 49: The good-neighbor policy specifically includes the Doctrine of Nonintervention.
Sentence 50: This assures each nation freedom for its own development.
Sentence 51: My country, in common with all the American Republics, pledged itself at the Conference of Montevideo in 1933 and the Conference of Buenos Aires in 1936 to observe the Doctrine of Nonintervention.
Sentence 52: What it means is that a strong nation does not have the right to impose its will, by reason of its strength, upon a weaker nation.
Sentence 53: The wholehearted acceptance of this doctrine by all of us is the keystone of the Inter-American System.
Sentence 54: Without it we could not exist as a community of good neighbors.
Sentence 55: It is a binding commitment under the good-neighbor policy.
Sentence 56: It is part of the basic international law recognized by all the American Republics.
Sentence 57: My own country will be faithful to the letter and to the spirit of that law.
Sentence 58: Nonintervention does not and cannot mean indifference to what goes on beyond our own borders.
Sentence 59: Events in one country may have a profound effect in other countries.
Sentence 60: The community of nations feels concern at the violation of accepted principles of national behavior by any one of its members.
Sentence 61: The lawlessness of one nation may threaten the very existence of the law on which all nations depend.
Sentence 62: In our domestic civil life we long ago recognized that the alternative to the rule of the strong was law established by the community.
Sentence 63: For some years now we have been seeking, with increasing success, to apply this basic concept to international relations.
Sentence 64: It is no coincidence that the effort to achieve collective world security has been concurrent with the growing acceptance of the Doctrine of Nonintervention.
Sentence 65: It is inspiring to note the progress we have made toward establishing a community of nations with authority to enforce the law on delinquents.
Sentence 66: The Charter of the United Nations specifically invests the world community of nations with a measure of such authority.
Sentence 67: Within the good-neighbor community of the 21 American Republics we have witnessed and are witnessing a similar constructive development, beginning at Buenos Aires in 1936 with unanimous acceptance of the 'principles of consultation.
Sentence 68: The development of the Inter-American System was accelerated by the great work done in this city at the 1945 Conference on Problems of War and Peace, where the plan of a reorganized and strengthened System was created.
Sentence 69: International relations have traditionally been compared to a chess game in which each nation tries to outwit and checkmate the other.
Sentence 70: I cannot accept that comparison with respect to the relations between your country and mine, Mr. President.
Sentence 71: The United States and Mexico are working together for the mutual benefit of their peoples and the peace of the world.
Sentence 72: You have made me feel, what I could not have doubted in any case, that I stand here, in the midst of the great people of Mexico, as a trusted friend and a welcome guest.
Sentence 73: To you and to the people of Mexico I bring a message of friendship and trust from the people of the United States.
Sentence 74: Though the road be long and wearisome that leads to a good neighborhood as wide as the world, we shall travel it together.
Sentence 75: Our two countries will not fail each other.
Sentence 76: Thank you.
