Sentence 1: 1948 Address The State Capitol Denver

Governor, Senator, distinguished politicians, and members of the Democratic Party of Colorado, ladies and gentlemen:
Sentence 2: Every time I come out this way I feel again the tremendous vitality of the West.
Sentence 3: That feeling comes not only from magnificent .scenery and bracing air.
Sentence 4: It comes from talking to the vigorous, confident people who live out here.
Sentence 5: This is a straight-from-the-shoulder country, and it has produced a great breed of fighting men.
Sentence 6: I am going to call upon your fighting qualities now.
Sentence 7: For you and I have a fight on our hands--a fight for the future of this country and for the welfare of the people of the United States.
Sentence 8: The other day, a cartoonist for a Republican newspaper drew a cartoon of me that I enjoyed.
Sentence 9: He showed me dressed up as Patti Revere, riding through a colonial town yelling to the townspeople: "Look out!
Sentence 10: The Republicans are coming!"
Sentence 11: It was a good cartoon.
Sentence 12: There's a lot of truth in it.
Sentence 13: But it's not quite accurate.
Sentence 14: What I am really telling you is not that the Republicans are coming, but they are here.
Sentence 15: They have been in Washington for the last 2 years in the form of the notorious Republican "do-nothing" 80th Congress.
Sentence 16: Today I want to talk to you about what that Republican Congress has been doing to you, and to your families, and to your country.
Sentence 17: Understand me, when I speak of what the Republicans have been doing, I'm not talking about the average Republican voter.
Sentence 18: Nobody knows better than I that man for man, individually, most Republicans are fine people.
Sentence 19: But there's a big distinction between the individual Republican voter and the policies of the Republican Party.
Sentence 20: Something happens to Republican leaders when they get control of the Government or even of a part of the Government--something that shocks and dismays many of their own loyal supporters.
Sentence 21: Republicans in Washington have a habit of becoming curiously deaf to the voice of the people.
Sentence 22: They have a hard time hearing what the ordinary people of the country are saying.
Sentence 23: But they have no trouble at all hearing what Wall Street is saying.
Sentence 24: They are able to catch the slightest whisper from big business and the special interests.
Sentence 25: When I talk to you here today about Republicans, I am talking about the party that gets most of its campaign funds from the special interests in Wall Street.
Sentence 26: I am talking to you about the party that gave us the phony boom of the 1920's, and the Hoover depression which followed it.
Sentence 27: I am talking to you about the party that gave us that Republican 80th Congress.
Sentence 28: The Republican Party today is controlled by silent and cunning men who have a dangerous lust for power and privilege.
Sentence 29: The Republican Party is fundamentally the party of privilege.
Sentence 30: These men are now reaching out for control of the country and its resources.
Sentence 31: It is your votes which will decide whether or not they have their way.
Sentence 32: That is why I have come out here today.
Sentence 33: I want you to know the facts.
Sentence 34: I repeat: The most reactionary elements in the country today are backing the Republican Party in its effort to take over your Government on election day.
Sentence 35: If they succeed, I predict that they will turn back the clock to the day when the West was an economic colony of Wall Street.
Sentence 36: That is terrible even to contemplate.
Sentence 37: Election day this year, your choice will not be merely between political parties.
Sentence 38: You will be choosing a way of life for years to come.
Sentence 39: This is a fateful election.
Sentence 40: On it will depend your standard of living and the economic independence of your community.
Sentence 41: You can choose to be governed by Republican puppets of big business--the same breed that gave you the worst depression in our history.
Sentence 42: Or you can choose to be governed by the servants of the people, who are pledged to work for the welfare of all the people, the nominees of the Democratic Party.
Sentence 43: Some of you may feel that I am attacking the leaders of the Republican Party rather sharply.
Sentence 44: I am.
Sentence 45: And I have good reasons for doing it--reasons like the obstacles placed in the way of conservation of our natural resources; reasons like the housing conditions in this country; reasons like the high cost of living; reasons close to your hearts, and to mine.
Sentence 46: You people out here have been thinking about these problems.
Sentence 47: You have a right to know what your Government is going to do about them.
Sentence 48: Let's go into them a little bit.
Sentence 49: Let's see where the Republicans stand on these vital issues, and where the Democratic Party stands.
Sentence 50: We all know that the housing situation in this country is a national disgrace.
Sentence 51: It is almost unbelievable that we should have made so little progress in providing decent housing conditions for millions of American families.
Sentence 52: From the first day of that Republican 80th Congress, there was a housing bill before it, which would meet the problem.
Sentence 53: That bill was a full-scale program to provide housing for all our people and not just for those who can pay high prices.
Sentence 54: But the Republicans refused to act.
Sentence 55: The situation became more and more desperate.
Sentence 56: Veterans' groups, labor groups, mayors of cities, Governors of States, pleaded with the Republicans to pass the housing bill.
Sentence 57: Even that hypocritical Philadelphia convention made a plea for it.
Sentence 58: Can you beat that?
Sentence 59: They still did nothing.
Sentence 60: The Republican stand on housing was clearly exposed last July, when I called the Congress into special session and demanded again that they enact housing legislation.
Sentence 61: The bill was ready.
Sentence 62: It had been studied and discussed, times without number.
Sentence 63: It was supposed to be nonpartisan.
Sentence 64: But what happened?
Sentence 65: There was a certain real estate lobby which had its high-priced agents operating in Washington.
Sentence 66: These men, representing big real estate interests, were in close touch with the Republican leaders.
Sentence 67: The Republican leadership in the House of Representatives cracked the whip.
Sentence 68: And the Republican Senate killed the nonpartisan housing bill.
Sentence 69: This was no accident.
Sentence 70: It was Republican policy.
Sentence 71: In 1947, Senator Taft joined with two Democratic Senators--Senator Wagner and Senator Ellender--in introducing the housing bill.
Sentence 72: But in 1948 he voted against the bill with his own name on it.
Sentence 73: What a whip they must have cracked over Taft.
Sentence 74: Why did the Republicans kill the bill?
Sentence 75: The answer is plain.
Sentence 76: They wanted to leave housing under the control of the profiteers.
Sentence 77: There is a lot of money to be made out of providing houses for the 'people--if private interests are allowed to exact exorbitant profits from the people.
Sentence 78: Have you felt the pinch of the housing shortage?
Sentence 79: Put the blame where it belongs.
Sentence 80: And remember, if the Republicans were to come into power for the next 4 years, the future of American housing would be in the hands of the same men who killed that housing bill--the men who obey the lobbyists of selfish interests, the powerful real estate lobby, and half a dozen others which I am going to talk to you about later on in this campaign.
Sentence 81: Now, about high prices.
Sentence 82: I know you are troubled by high prices.
Sentence 83: Well, put the blame where it belongs--on the leaders of the Republican Party.
Sentence 84: The Republican record in dealing with inflation is typical.
Sentence 85: When I called the Republican Congress into special session this year and asked them for price control measures, they said that my request was made for political purposes.
Sentence 86: They used that as an excuse and did nothing about prices.
Sentence 87: They very conveniently forgot that I had called a special session of the same Congress in 1947, and asked for the same price control.
Sentence 88: And 1947 was not an election year.
Sentence 89: If they had put into effect the controls I asked for, the prices on such things as meat, milk, steel, and automobiles would have been stabilized or reduced.
Sentence 90: The Republicans could easily have taken this issue out of politics merely by doing something about it.
Sentence 91: But they chose to do nothing about it.
Sentence 92: I have been talking about the conservation of our economic well-being.
Sentence 93: Now I come to a particular phase of that conservation that has special interest for you of the West.
Sentence 94: You live in a region whose whole future depends on its wise use of the rich resources that Nature has provided.
Sentence 95: Early in this century, a unique Republican President, Theodore Roosevelt, fought for conservation, only to be repudiated by his party.
Sentence 96: All through the Republican administrations from 1921 to 1933, the big business pressure groups prevented adequate conservation measures from being put into effect.
Sentence 97: They wanted quick profits, the easy way.
Sentence 98: And so western forests were logged off and left barren.
Sentence 99: Range lands were grazed off and ruined.
Sentence 100: Farmland was worked to the point where its fertility was gone.
Sentence 101: Precious water ran unused past barren land.
Sentence 102: There was no soil conservation program, no range conservation program.
Sentence 103: The Nation lost tremendous quantities of its most valuable resources.
Sentence 104: The West continued to bow to Wall Street furnishing raw materials at low prices and buying back finished goods at high prices.
Sentence 105: Then, in 1933, came the Democratic administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Sentence 106: Under his leadership, conservation was made a living reality.
Sentence 107: You know better than anyone how much it has meant to the West.
Sentence 108: The Democratic administration won its fight for conservation and for western development against the bitter opposition of Wall Street and the special interests.
Sentence 109: You of the West see the results of our victory every day.
Sentence 110: You see those results in bigger and better crops; in new industries; in the growing national parks and forests and the tourists who visit them; in the rising standards of living of the people of the West; and in the stronger economy of the whole Nation.
Sentence 111: But we still have a long way to go.
Sentence 112: We are still using our timber faster than we grow it.
Sentence 113: Thousands of acres of land are still being washed away every year.
Sentence 114: Disastrous floods are still frequent.
Sentence 115: Conservation in the West is of first importance to the whole country.
Sentence 116: In the face of all this, what did the "donothing" Republican Congress do?
Sentence 117: Remember, the record of that Congress is the actual test of the attitude of the Republican leadership toward the people.
Sentence 118: The Republicans in Congress consistently tried to cut the ground from under our conservation program.
Sentence 119: Last year, the Republican-dominated House of Representatives voted to cut the agricultural conservation program in half in 1947, and to end it entirely by 1948.
Sentence 120: The Democrats in the Senate led, and finally won, a fight to save the life of that program.
Sentence 121: They saved it, but they could not completely restore it.
Sentence 122: The program was seriously damaged by the Republican 80th Congress.
Sentence 123: Here is a significant fact.
Sentence 124: Nineteen forty-seven was the first year in a decade and a half that the Republicans had control of Congress.
Sentence 125: And that was the first year in which the Congress took a step backward in the field of soil conservation since that program was begun.
Sentence 126: The first time the Republicans had a chance they began to undermine conservation.
Sentence 127: Now, let's look at another subject that is closely bound up with your future--the industrial development of the West.
Sentence 128: I know that all of you recognize the importance of creating new industries in this region, using the resources of the West, so as to reduce your industrial dependence upon the East.
Sentence 129: For my part, I am convinced that rapid and sound industrial development in the West will make a vital contribution to the living standards and the well-being, not only of the people of the West, but of the whole Nation.
Sentence 130: The heart of the western industrial development program is hydroelectric power.
Sentence 131: Coupled with the irrigation projects and flood control, electric power is of fundamental importance to your future.
Sentence 132: The Democratic Party, for the past 15 years, has been energetically developing the great dams, irrigation projects, and power systems which have contributed so much to the prosperity of the West.
Sentence 133: But as soon as the Republican Party gained control of the Congress, it began to tear down the whole western development program.
Sentence 134: The Republicans slashed funds right and left.
Sentence 135: They cut back projects to bring water to the land and electric power to industry.
Sentence 136: Right here in this State, the Colorado-Big Thompson project is under way.
Sentence 137: It is an inspiring project, involving the transfer of water from one side of the Continental Divide to the other.
Sentence 138: The Republican Congress sharply reduced the funds for that project.
Sentence 139: When I pointed out the danger of that action and requested them to restore those funds, they refused to do it.
Sentence 140: Wherever you turn, no matter what field of activity, you find the same story.
Sentence 141: In the light of the evidence, I say flatly that the Republican leaders have been working against the interests of the people.
Sentence 142: I say they have been eager agents of the big business lobbies and the most reactionary elements in American economic life.
Sentence 143: They jump for these lobbyists, but they won't do anything for the people.
Sentence 144: In the last 16 years, Democratic administrations have built a firm foundation for a new and greater West.
Sentence 145: We restored grazing lands for the sustained production of livestock.
Sentence 146: Millions of cattle and sheep feed today where only prairie dogs and rattlesnakes existed before.
Sentence 147: We restored forests for a sustained yield of timber.
Sentence 148: Trees stand for the future where exploiters would have wiped them out.
Sentence 149: We established a sound conservation policy to prevent land erosion and restore the fertility of the soil.
Sentence 150: We built the Federal system of hydroelectric and irrigation projects which are now providing water for more than 5 million irrigated acres in the West and for better living for millions of people.
Sentence 151: We have been leading the fight for decent housing, effective reduction of the cost of living, and a rise in living standards--all for a better Nation of happier people.
Sentence 152: That is the Democratic record--a record of which I am exceedingly proud.
Sentence 153: There is more to do, much more.
Sentence 154: What we have done so far is only the beginning.
Sentence 155: This is no time to permit progress to be checked, when you can foresee great new developments of your agriculture, your industry, and your commerce, if you have the aid and support of the Federal Government.
Sentence 156: Your need is to insure the election of an administration pledged to give you that aid and support--in other words, you need a Democratic administration.
Sentence 157: There is a hard fight ahead.
Sentence 158: We shall have to fight the slick political propaganda of the special interests and the Republican leadership.
Sentence 159: We shall have to fight the millions of dollars that Wall Street is pouring into the treasury of the Republican Party.
Sentence 160: We shall have to fight the Republican undercover sabotage of the West.
Sentence 161: But we of the Democratic Party are eager for that fight.
Sentence 162: In fact, I am taking it to them right now.
Sentence 163: We believe that we owe to future generations the bequest of a strong America, mighty in its resources and wise in its use of them.
Sentence 164: We are firmly determined to leave after us a land that is better than we found it.
