Sentence 1: 1948 Address Pittsburgh Pennsylvania

Mr. Chairman, and fellow Democrats of Allegheny County:
Sentence 2: I can't tell you how very much I appreciate this magnificent reception.
Sentence 3: I am always happy when I am with John Kane and Dave Lawrence, and Frank Myers and all the rest of the good Democrats of Pennsylvania.
Sentence 4: I think a Presidential campaign is one of the most important elements in our democratic process.
Sentence 5: It's a chance to get things out in the open and discuss them and make decisions.
Sentence 6: I am an old campaigner, and I enjoy it.
Sentence 7: This is about my 230th meeting, and I am still going strong, and I will be going strong at midnight of November the 1st.
Sentence 8: You know, I would enjoy this campaign a lot more if my opponent had the courage to discuss the issues.
Sentence 9: The American people have the right to know where I stand and where my opponent stands on the issues that affect every person in this country.
Sentence 10: Now, the people know where I stand.
Sentence 11: But the Republican candidate refuses to tell where he stands.
Sentence 12: My opponent is conducting a very peculiar campaign.
Sentence 13: He has set himself up as some kind of doctor with a magic cure for all the ills of mankind.
Sentence 14: Now, let's imagine that we, the American people, are going to see this doctor.
Sentence 15: It's just our usual routine checkup which we have every 4 years.
Sentence 16: Now, we go into this doctor's office.
Sentence 17: And, "Doctor," we say, "we're feeling fine.
Sentence 18: "
"Is that so?" says the doctor.
Sentence 19: "You been bothered much by issues lately ?"
"Not bothered, exactly," we say.
Sentence 20: "Of course, we've had a few.
Sentence 21: We've had the issues of high prices, and housing, and education, and social security, and a few others."
"That's too bad," says the doctor.
Sentence 22: "You shouldn't have so many issues.
Sentence 23: "
"Is that right?" we say.
Sentence 24: "We thought that issues were a sign of political health.
Sentence 25: "
"Not at all," says the doctor.
Sentence 26: "You shouldn't think about issues.
Sentence 27: What you need is my brand of soothing syrup--I call it 'unity.'
Sentence 28: "
Then the doctor edges up a little closer.
Sentence 29: And he says, "Say, you don't look so good.
Sentence 30: "
We say to him, "Well, that seems strange to me, Doc.
Sentence 31: I never felt stronger, never had more money, and never had a brighter future.
Sentence 32: What is wrong with me?"
Sentence 33: Well, the doctor looks blank and he says, "I never discuss issues with a patient.
Sentence 34: But what you need is a major operation.
Sentence 35: "
"Will it be serious, Doe?" we say.
Sentence 36: "Not so very serious," he says.
Sentence 37: "It will just mean taking out the complete works and putting in a Republican administration.
Sentence 38: "
Now, that's the kind of campaign you have been getting from the Republicans.
Sentence 39: They won't talk about the issues, but they insist that a major operation is necessary.
Sentence 40: Take this vague talk of the Republican candidate about the "failures" of the present administration.
Sentence 41: That puzzled me for a little bit.
Sentence 42: I thought of the fact that our national income is now running at the rate of over $220 billion a year--over five times as much as it was in 1932.
Sentence 43: Is that what he calls a failure?
Sentence 44: Or perhaps he was worried about the profits of the corporations.
Sentence 45: In 1932, corporations lost $3 billion--lost $3 billion.
Sentence 46: Now corporate profits are running at the rate of $19 billion a year, after taxes.
Sentence 47: Is that what he calls a failure?
Sentence 48: Perhaps he was thinking about our mighty undertakings to assist the free nations of the world to protect themselves against the inroads of communism.
Sentence 49: These efforts are proving successful.
Sentence 50: Is that what he calls a failure?
Sentence 51: In his speech here in Pittsburgh just a few days ago, the Republican candidate pretended to be upset about the way my administration has treated labor--about the terrible condition that labor was in in 1946.
Sentence 52: That's the excuse he gives for the passage of the Taft-Hartley law.
Sentence 53: All right--all right, let's examine that.
Sentence 54: In 1946, more people had jobs than ever before in the history of the country.
Sentence 55: Unions were healthier and had more members than ever before.
Sentence 56: And the workingmen and women of the United States produced more goods in 1946 than in any previous peacetime year.
Sentence 57: The world wasn't perfect in 1946.
Sentence 58: But before any Republican begins complaining about that, he had better take a look at 1932--the last Republican year.
Sentence 59: The Republican candidate talks about the workdays lost from strikes in 1946.
Sentence 60: Our industrial production in 1946 was three times as much as it was in 1932.
Sentence 61: And the days lost from strikes in 1946 were less than 1 1/2 percent of the total days worked that year.
Sentence 62: Republicans don't like to talk about 1932--and I don't blame them.
Sentence 63: Do you?
Sentence 64: But it is a good year for you to remember when you start out to vote on election day.
Sentence 65: When the Republican candidate finished telling you, here in Pittsburgh, how labor had suffered under my administration, he told you who had come to the rescue of labor.
Sentence 66: Now, who do you think it was ?
Sentence 67: It was the Republicans, according to the Republican candidate.
Sentence 68: Now, how do you suppose they did it?
Sentence 69: They did it with the Taft-Hartley Act.
Sentence 70: That is how they came to the rescue of labor.
Sentence 71: Yes, sir.
Sentence 72: The Republican candidate marched up proudly and embraced the Taft-Hartley law--lock, stock, and barrel.
Sentence 73: No workingman can have any doubt about that any more.
Sentence 74: And in praising the Taft-Hartley law, he displayed his characteristic tendency of claiming credit where no credit is due.
Sentence 75: He tried to tell you that it is the Taft-Hartley Act that is driving the Communists out of labor unions.
Sentence 76: Now, if you want to know how much truth there is in this claim, ask Bill Green-ask Phil Murray.
Sentence 77: They will tell you who got the Communists out.
Sentence 78: It's being done in the good American way--the unions are doing it themselves.
Sentence 79: Now in this speech the Republican candidate made here in Pittsburgh, he admitted, with characteristic modesty, that he is going to lead the country--and, indeed, the whole world--out of all its troubles.
Sentence 80: And he made a lot of promises.
Sentence 81: He opened his mouth and he closed his eyes, and he swallowed the terrible record of that good-for-nothing Republican Both Congress.
Sentence 82: Now, 4 years ago this same Republican Presidential candidate went around the country saying that he was in favor of what the Democrats had done, but he could do it better.
Sentence 83: He said he was in favor of the National Labor Relations Act, the Wage and Hour Act, the Social Security Act, and "all the other Federal statutes designed to promote and protect the welfare of the American workingmen and women"--but he could do it better.
Sentence 84: For some reason or other the American people did not believe him in 1944.
Sentence 85: This year the same candidate is back with us, and he is saying much the same thing; that he likes the Democratic laws, but that he can run them better than we can.
Sentence 86: It sounds to me like the same old phonograph record; but this year the record has a crack, and the needle gets stuck in that crack every once in a while.
Sentence 87: Now the crack in the soothing syrup of that record was provided by the Republican 80th "do-nothing" Congress.
Sentence 88: Now, in 1948, every time the Republican candidate says, "I can do it better," up comes an echo from the crack which says, "We're against it.
Sentence 89: "
So the sounds coming out of the Republican Party this year are not very harmonious.
Sentence 90: And they are even less believable than they were in 1944.
Sentence 91: The candidate said, and I quote: "The present minimum wage set by law is far too low and it will be raised."
Sentence 92: Now, that's fine.
Sentence 93: I am glad he said that.
Sentence 94: We're right with the candidate on that.
Sentence 95: In fact, we are 'way out ahead of him.
Sentence 96: Time and time again in the last 2 years I urged the Republican "do-nothing" 80th Congress to raise the minimum wage from the present 40 cents an hour to at least 75 cents an hour.
Sentence 97: But that Republican Congress--that crack in the record--said, "Nothing doing--we're against it."
Sentence 98: And the minimum wage stayed where it was.
Sentence 99: Now, the Republicans like to say they are for a minimum wage, but it is perfectly clear that the smaller the minimum the better.
Sentence 100: Now, let's look at another song on the record the candidate played for you here in Pittsburgh.
Sentence 101: That Republican candidate for President said, and I quote: "We will overhaul the Social Security System for the unemployed and the aged, and go forward to extend its coverage and increase its benefits."
Sentence 102: That is a direct quote from his speech, made right here in Pittsburgh.
Sentence 103: Now, that sounds good, although it's a little vague.
Sentence 104: But that's the candidate speaking.
Sentence 105: Where do the Republicans actually stand on social security ?
Sentence 106: As your President, I made every effort to get the Republican 80th Congress to extend social security coverage and increase social security benefits.
Sentence 107: What did that Congress do?
Sentence 108: They took social security benefits away from nearly a million people.
Sentence 109: What do you believe--campaign promises, or plain facts of Republican action?
Sentence 110: Now, again that cracked record gives them away.
Sentence 111: It says, "We're against it.
Sentence 112: "
In my recommendations to the special "do-nothing" session of Congress in July, I pointed out the desperate need to increase old-age insurance benefits at least 50 percent.
Sentence 113: At the present time the average insurance benefit payment for an old couple is less than $40 a month.
Sentence 114: The Republican Congress did nothing about it--and neither did the Republican candidate for President.
Sentence 115: He was silent as the tomb while the Congress was in session.
Sentence 116: Now, while he's campaigning, he suddenly takes quite an interest in increasing social security benefits.
Sentence 117: And I ask you: "Can you believe that kind of a campaign promise?"
That Republican outfit went to Philadelphia and wrote a platform, and that platform was the most hypocritical document that ever was written; and I called them back to Washington to see whether they meant what they said in their platform.
Sentence 118: And they didn't.
Take another promise in that Pittsburgh speech.
Sentence 119: The Republican candidate said, and I quote: "We will make the Labor Department equal in actual Cabinet status to Commerce and Agriculture.
Sentence 120: It will make an important contribution to the national welfare."
Sentence 121: Doesn't that sound nice?
Sentence 122: That promise is ridiculous in the face of what the Republicans in the 80th Congress did.
Sentence 123: The Republican 80th Congress stripped the Mediation and Conciliation Service from the Labor Department.
Sentence 124: The Republican 80th Congress cut the appropriations for the Bureau of Labor Statistics almost in half--apparently to prevent the Bureau from showing what's happening to the cost of living.
Sentence 125: That's the plain factual record of what the Republicans have done to the Labor Department in the last 2 years.
Sentence 126: Remember, the Republican candidate has said he is proud of the record of the 80th Congress.
Sentence 127: But that crack in the record gives them away.
Sentence 128: Here's another one of his promises.
Sentence 129: Here in Pittsburgh, the Republican candidate said, and I quote again: "We will bring a new and vigorous leadership to the Federal Conciliation and Mediation Service so that major disputes are settled before they become strikes.
Sentence 130: "
Now that's a very, very peculiar promise.
Sentence 131: The present director of the Mediation Service is a well-known industrial leader named Cyrus Ching.
Sentence 132: Mr. Ching has been widely praised for his work in mediation.
Sentence 133: I think the Republican candidate is a bit confused here.
Sentence 134: And that is not the only thing he is confused on, either.
Sentence 135: Let me take another campaign promise, here in Pittsburgh.
Sentence 136: The Republican candidate said right here: "We will encourage unions to grow in responsibility and strengthen the processes of collective bargaining.
Sentence 137: "
I know it's hard to believe, but that's exactly what he said.
Sentence 138: And he said it in the very same speech in which he went all out for the Taft-Hartley law.
Sentence 139: Now, in this case, the candidate has fallen in the crack with the Republican Congress.
Sentence 140: He makes a promise, but the record says they're both against it.
Sentence 141: Here's another promise by the Republican candidate; and I quote again: "We will vigorously and consistently enforce and strengthen our antitrust laws against business monopolies."
Sentence 142: Now that's really fantastic.
Sentence 143: The Republican Party is notoriously favorable toward big business monopolies.
Sentence 144: The record of the Republican 80th Congress furnishes plenty of proof.
Sentence 145: They passed over my veto a bill to exempt railroads from antitrust laws.
Sentence 146: And at the same time they refused to pass, as I recommended, the O'Mahoney-Kefauver bill to plug loopholes in the antitrust laws.
Sentence 147: In the face of that record, the candidate now claims that the Republicans will strengthen the antitrust laws.
Sentence 148: How can the Republican candidate say such things with a straight face?
Sentence 149: But here's another--here's another!
Sentence 150: Here in Pittsburgh again, he said, and I quote: "We will break the log jam in housing so that decent houses may be provided at reasonable cost for the people.
Sentence 151: "
For 2 solid years I tried in every way I knew to get the Republican Both Congress to break the log jam in housing by passing the Taft-Ellender-Wagner bill.
Sentence 152: The Republicans would not act.
Sentence 153: In the face of pleading and urging from Governors and Mayors, from veterans and plain people all over the country, the Republican Congress refused to pass the housing bill.
Sentence 154: And I gave them four chances to do it.
Sentence 155: But now--now in the middle of the campaign--the Republican candidate has the gall to promise that the Republicans will take action on housing.
Sentence 156: I certainly wouldn't have believed it if I hadn't seen it in print.
Sentence 157: Let me quote just one more campaign promise from that incredible Pittsburgh speech.
Sentence 158: "We will make sure," said the Republican candidate, I quote: "we will make sure that soaring prices do not steal food and clothing and other necessities from American families.
Sentence 159: "
Now that one completely stops me.
Sentence 160: Everybody in this country knows that the Republican 80th Congress refused, time and time again, to pass the laws we need to stop high prices.
Sentence 161: In November 1947, in January 1948, in July 1948, I asked that Republican Congress to act against inflation.
Sentence 162: They didn't do a thing about it.
Sentence 163: And neither did the Republican candidate.
Sentence 164: All through the time when the Congress was in session, stalling and blocking anti-inflation legislation, the Republican candidate was silent as the grave.
Sentence 165: But now--now that he's trying to persuade the people to vote for him--the Republican candidate says the Republicans will do something about high prices.
Sentence 166: It looks to me as though it's a little late in the game for that promise, anyway.
Sentence 167: Now, the candidate says--the Republican candidate says: "Me, too."
Sentence 168: But the Republican record still says, "We're against it."
Sentence 169: And if you return the Republicans to power, you will have that same clique in control of the Congress that is in control of it now.
Sentence 170: These two phrases, "me, too," and "we're against it," sum up the whole Republican campaign.
Sentence 171: My friends, it isn't funny at all.
Sentence 172: It's tragic, tragic for the everyday citizen.
Sentence 173: This soft talk and double talk, this combination of crafty silence and resounding misrepresentation, is an insult to the intelligence of the American voter.
Sentence 174: It proceeds upon the assumption that you can fool all the people-or enough of them--all the time.
Sentence 175: In this campaign you don't have to rely on promises.
Sentence 176: This time, you have the record.
Sentence 177: You don't have to play just the Republican side of that record.
Sentence 178: Turn it over.
Sentence 179: Our side--the Democratic side--doesn't say, "We're against it."
Sentence 180: It says, "We can do it."
Sentence 181: And we will do it--if you will give us a chance.
Sentence 182: Our side is the Victory March a victory on November 2d for all the people and for the people's party--the Democratic Party.
