Sentence 1: 1948 Address Phoenix Arizona

Governor, Senator McFarland, Congressman Murdock:
I can't tell you how very highly pleased I am to be your guest here tonight, and I am sincerely sorry that I couldn't have gotten here sooner.
Sentence 2: But I am under the impression if I had gotten here sooner, there wouldn't have been room for anybody else.
Sentence 3: I have been here before.
Sentence 4: I remember coming here one night, and making a speech in behalf of Carl Hayden, when he was running for reelection.
Sentence 5: We had a lot of fun on that, and you sent Carl back to the Senate.
Sentence 6: I want to say to the great State of Arizona, that when you have men like Carl Hayden and Ernest McFarland, and John Murdock, and this young man Patten, who is going back there now, the country is well-helped by that sort of treatment from this great State.
Sentence 7: I can't tell you how very much I appreciate your coming out here at this time of night.
Sentence 8: That shows you are interested in your Government and interested in what is going to happen to your country.
Sentence 9: You should be interested.
Sentence 10: The results of this election will make a lot of difference to each one of you personally.
Sentence 11: One of the finest things about our form of government is that it gives people a chance to shape their own destiny.
Sentence 12: They don't always take advantage of that chance as they should.
Sentence 13: Look at what happened in 1946, when two-thirds of the voters in the United States stayed at home; and the other third elected that Republican 80th "do-nothing" Congress.
Sentence 14: You've heard a lot about that Congress, and I am going to tell you a lot more about it, before I get through with this campaign.
Sentence 15: I'm glad to say that Arizona didn't have any part in that.
Sentence 16: You sent fine Democrats to the Congress just as you had been doing all along.
Sentence 17: If it hadn't been for the battle put up by your Senators and Representatives, and other Democrats like them, the Republican-controlled 80th Congress would have done a lot more harmful things than it did.
Sentence 18: The Republicans are still saving up a lot of special interest measures, hoping that in the next Congress there won't be so many Democrats to protect the people.
Sentence 19: God help the country, if that happens.
Sentence 20: We're going to show them that they're wrong.
Sentence 21: I know where Arizona will stand, and I know the kind of people you'll send to the Congress--just as the men I named awhile ago, that's the sort of people we want in the Congress.
Sentence 22: I've been having a wonderful time on this trip.
Sentence 23: It's given me a chance to tell about the record of the Democratic Party, and that record was made in the last 16 years.
Sentence 24: It's a record I'm very proud of, and I get so much pleasure out of telling about it that it reminds me of the old Sunday School hymn, "I love to tell the story.
Sentence 25: "
I say that no political party in the history of the world has ever done so much for a country as the Democratic Party has done for the United States since the election of Franklin Roosevelt.
Sentence 26: You remember how we started out from the midst of a terrible depression.
Sentence 27: You remember how the Nation responded when it found out that we had a Government that was working for the people, and not taking orders from Wall Street.
Sentence 28: That's right.
Sentence 29: You remember!
Sentence 30: Who was it said, "The capital of the United States has been moved from Wall Street to Washington"?
Sentence 31: And that is where we want to keep it.
Sentence 32: We made progress year after year under a Democratic administration and a Democratic Congress.
Sentence 33: Sometimes the progress was rapid--sometimes it was slow.
Sentence 34: But we always made progress, for we were headed forward.
Sentence 35: Now, the Republicans want to turn around and start backward.
Sentence 36: They want to move the capital from Washington back to Wall Street.
Sentence 37: They have been working at it in the Congress for the last 2 years and they're now trying to .capture the executive branch of the Government, so that they can complete the job.
Sentence 38: The things we have done since the people took over the Government in 1933 have paid big dividends to the Nation.
Sentence 39: And one of the things that has paid the biggest dividends is our aid in developing the resources of the West.
Sentence 40: There is a part of the record I've talked about a lot on this trip, because the people of the West know what it means.
Sentence 41: They know that the Democratic Party has done more for the development of the West in the last 16 years than the Republican Party did in the last hundred.
Sentence 42: That's on the record and all the campaign oratory in the world can't change it.
Sentence 43: This is of great importance to you here in Arizona.
Sentence 44: You are vitally interested in water for your cities and irrigation projects, and in the development of power from your rivers.
Sentence 45: Just now you are very much interested in the completion of the Davis Dam and a network of transmission lines.
Sentence 46: This will give you the power you have to have to carry on, and you will get it at a much cheaper rate.
Sentence 47: Our goal for the completion of that project is 1950.
Sentence 48: We can finish it on schedule--if we can keep the Republicans from throwing more monkey wrenches into the machinery.
Sentence 49: You are fortunate here in Arizona that the private power facilities and the public power agencies have shown a fine spirit of cooperation with the Federal Government in the development and transmission of power.
Sentence 50: This example of the mutual advantage of cooperation between private utilities and the Government agencies should be a matter of interest to people in other areas, where the power trust is trying to bottle up power, until they can get a rake-off on it.
Sentence 51: The harnessing of the Colorado River for beneficial uses is a dramatic thing as well as a matter of good business.
Sentence 52: It's the kind of empire building I like.
Sentence 53: I want to see the day when all the waters of that mighty river will be put to their best possible use.
Sentence 54: Today, half the water that could be supplied by the Colorado system is still flowing down to the sea without being used.
Sentence 55: That water ought to be put on the land, and used to turn out power.
Sentence 56: That's where it is needed for homes and crops and industries.
Sentence 57: The big problem, of course, is to settle the division of the waters among the States of the Colorado Basin, since there is not enough to meet all the needs.
Sentence 58: The Upper Basin States have recently arrived at a basic agreement, which I hope will soon be translated into a working compact.
Sentence 59: The question of the water rights of the Lower Basin is a tough one and involves many complex problems.
Sentence 60: This is of tremendous importance to Arizona, because your population, and your industry and agriculture have advanced more rapidly than water resources have been made available to sustain them.
Sentence 61: The lack of water is the limiting factor in your development, right now.
Sentence 62: And in order to plan intelligently for the future, you need to know how much water you can count on.
Sentence 63: The Secretary of the Interior has just sent to the Congress a detailed report on a vast project for bringing water to central Arizona.
Sentence 64: He has found that investigations made over a period of years show this project to be economically feasible.
Sentence 65: But it depends on taking a lot of water from the Colorado River.
Sentence 66: And the Secretary pointed out that Arizona's right to take this water from the Colorado River is challenged by her sister States.
Sentence 67: His recommendations for favorable consideration of the project was therefore conditioned upon Arizona's claims to the water being substantiated.
Sentence 68: I have talked about water, because I know of your interest in it, and because it's one of the many examples of Republican broken promises.
Sentence 69: In their platform for this year--1948--they say they "favor progressive development of the Nation's water resources for navigation, flood control, and power, with immediate action in critical areas."
Sentence 70: They also said they favored a comprehensive reclamation program.
Sentence 71: When it comes to making promises, they come right along saying, "Me, too.
Sentence 72: "
But when it comes to making good on those promises--well, that's something else again.
Sentence 73: I will cite you some examples.
Sentence 74: They said they were in favor of immediate action in critical areas.
Sentence 75: Well, I gave them a chance for immediate action.
Sentence 76: I called a special session of the Congress, after they wrote that hypocritical platform.
Sentence 77: And when I got this Republican Congress back in session, I pointed out to them where the cuts they had made in irrigation and power projects would delay the use of water or the furnishing of power by more than a year.
Sentence 78: All this power was badly needed and most of it was in critical areas, by anybody's definition.
Sentence 79: One of the projects I listed was Davis Dam--and you folks here know how badly you need the power from Davis Dam right now, and how serious it is that Republican cuts in appropriations will delay your getting this power.
Sentence 80: So, I told the Republican Congress they ought to restore the cuts they made in the Davis Dam project, and others like it in other parts of the West, and let the work go ahead.
Sentence 81: Here was the Republican's chance for immediate action of the kind they promised in their platform.
Sentence 82: You know, they wiped out the whole appropriation for the Davis Dam, and your Senators and Congressmen made them put part of it back, but they didn't put it all back.
Sentence 83: What happened ?
Sentence 84: The Republican leadership in the House of Representatives wouldn't even let the House consider restoring the money for these projects.
Sentence 85: And when the question was put to a vote in the Senate, the Republicans killed the appropriation there.
Sentence 86: Thirty-one out of thirty-five Democratic Senators voted for immediate action in these critical areas.
Sentence 87: But 45 out of 46 Republican Senators voted against it.
Sentence 88: Now, I will cite you the chapter and verse, so you can get the record.
Sentence 89: You read the Congressional Record, the 7th of August, 1948, at page 10256, and you will see just exactly what they did, and they can't lie out of the record.
Sentence 90: That's the kind of leadership the Republican Party has nowadays.
Sentence 91: That's the way you can expect it to carry out campaign promises.
Sentence 92: It's safer to stick by the Democratic record of performance.
Sentence 93: That, I know, is what you are going to do on election day.
Sentence 94: Go to the polls--go to the polls, and vote the Democratic ticket straight, just like you always do.
