Sentence 1: 1948 Address Wilkes Barre Pennsylvania

Thank you--thank you very much.
Sentence 2: I certainly appreciate most highly the cordial and friendly welcome of your distinguished Mayor.
Sentence 3: He wonders how I stand the campaign!
Sentence 4: I will explain it to him.
Sentence 5: When I was a very young man, I campaigned in the township to be township committeeman, and I failed to make the grade.
Sentence 6: When I got to be a little older, I campaigned in the county to be county Judge, and I made that grade.
Sentence 7: Then on several occasions I campaigned through the whole State for Senator, and of about 114 counties in the State I made them all.
Sentence 8: Now, as President of the United States, and head of the Democratic Party, it is my duty to let the people know just what I stand for, and what the Democratic Party means.
Sentence 9: And when I have a duty to do, it is never too great to be done.
Sentence 10: I certainly appreciate the privilege of meeting former Sergeant Hopkins, who was in the 109th Field Artillery.
Sentence 11: I did happen to be on the ridge at Mont Blaineville and fired on two German batteries.
Sentence 12: I didn't know I was doing anybody any good at that time.
Sentence 13: I just saw these batteries firing, and put them out of commission.
Sentence 14: That sometimes happens in politics, too.
Sentence 15: It certainly is a pleasure to be in this wonderful city of Wilkes-Barre today.
Sentence 16: A Democrat ought to feel at home here, in a city and county which have supported the Democratic Party consistently--except for a little mistake in 1946!
Sentence 17: We can't afford to make mistakes like that this year.
Sentence 18: This election is too important.
Sentence 19: Just one fundamental issue in this election this time, and that is the people against the special interests.
Sentence 20: And when you vote at the polls on November 2d, you will either vote for yourself or you will vote against yourself.
Sentence 21: Remember that.
Sentence 22: I have just been telling your neighbors over in Scranton what the Republican 80th Congress has done to labor and what the Republican Party plans to do to labor, if it gets control of the 81st Congress and puts a Republican President in the White House.
Sentence 23: You know, I exercised my power of veto oftener than any other President of the United States in the time limit, except Grover Cleveland, and each of those vetoes I felt was in the public interest.
Sentence 24: Suppose I hadn't been there!--the 80th Congress would have certainly fixed you sure enough, but they didn't have a chance to do all the things they wanted to do.
Sentence 25: All you have to do to avoid a mistake like the 80th Congress is to come out and vote on November 2d.
Sentence 26: Wilkes-Barre deserves to have a Representative in Congress who will vote in the interest of the people who live here--in your interest.
Sentence 27: You ought to have a Congressman who will vote to bring down high prices, to provide you with better social security, and good, decent, American homes.
Sentence 28: You deserve to have a Congressman who will vote for you, and not against you.
Sentence 29: Don't make a mistake again.
Sentence 30: Send Dan Flood back to Congress where he belongs.
Sentence 31: He was a good Congressman.
Sentence 32: Your city of Wilkes-Barre is a perfect example of what has made this country the leading nation in the world today--the greatest nation in the world on which the sun has ever shone upon.
Sentence 33: The greatest nation in the world today is the United States of America, and Wilkes-Barre made this country great.
Sentence 34: It is named after two great fighters for human liberty--John Wilkes and Isaac Barre.
Sentence 35: Wilkes-Barre has grown because men and women who loved liberty have come here from all over the world.
Sentence 36: You have fought for human liberty, too--in your businesses, in building up strong labor unions, and in the armed forces of this country fighting for freedom throughout the whole world in two great wars.
Sentence 37: This is the real American way.
Sentence 38: The ordinary common people of the world are just like we are.
Sentence 39: They want peace and security, and that is what we are trying to obtain for them.
Sentence 40: We know that the people of the world really want freedom and liberty.
Sentence 41: We understand the sufferings and the struggles of those in the lands from which we came.
Sentence 42: We know that they want freedom, no matter what regime may be imposed upon them by force or treachery.
Sentence 43: The Democratic Party stands for aid to people of other lands in their struggles against tyranny.
Sentence 44: We know that the people of the world really want liberty and freedom.
Sentence 45: During the 80th Congress, one of the pieces of legislation in which I was most interested was the displaced persons bill.
Sentence 46: This bill opens the door to a portion of those former victims of nazism, people from Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and other European countries, who have been persecuted by Germans and who don't want to go back to tyranny behind the Soviet Iron Curtain.
Sentence 47: I wanted to see our country admit its fair share of these helpless victims.
Sentence 48: I wanted to see them come in without any discrimination, but the Republican 80th Congress passed a law which discriminates against certain groups.
Sentence 49: It excludes nearly all displaced persons who belong to the Jewish faith, and it excludes an unfair proportion of those belonging to the Catholic faith.
Sentence 50: I don't think that is right.
Sentence 51: It is not American.
Sentence 52: I asked the Republican Congress to change this law at the special session last July, but it refused to act.
Sentence 53: Now, if you want to see these displaced persons, who have so much in common with us, treated on a fair and equal basis, you have got to elect a Democratic Congress on November 2d.
Sentence 54: If you elect a Democratic Congress, you will be sure of getting laws which will help out all the people of the United States, and not just a powerful, wealthy few.
Sentence 55: We need a law that will provide a half million units of low-rent public housing, clearance of slums, and rural housing.
Sentence 56: The Democratic Congress will give you that sort of law, because that is a part of the Democratic platform.
Sentence 57: We need Federal aid to education.
Sentence 58: The Democratic Congress will give you that aid, because that is a part of the Democratic platform.
Sentence 59: We need at least a 75-cent minimum wage.
Sentence 60: The Democratic Congress will give us that minimum wage.
Sentence 61: Now the Republican candidate says he is for a minimum wage, and I think the sort he wants is the smaller the minimum the better.
Sentence 62: We need extension of social security to everybody in the entire Nation not now covered, and a 50 percent increase in benefits.
Sentence 63: A Democratic Congress will give us that extension and that increase.
Sentence 64: The Republicans said they are for social security, but when they had the power and the Congress, they took social security away from a million people that had it.
Sentence 65: We need controls on inflation.
Sentence 66: A Democratic Congress, I think, will give us these controls.
Sentence 67: I am urging you with everything I have to vote the Democratic ticket straight November 2d, and then we can go on to build the kind of people's America that our great President Franklin D. Roosevelt had in mind when he gave us the New Deal.
Sentence 68: We can build the kind of prosperous Nation we all want in a peaceful world that I want--and I am sure you want and need.
Sentence 69: Thank you very much.
