Sentence 1: 1948 The Presidents News Conference 365

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: Gentlemen, I have a statement I want to read to you, and you will find it mimeographed outside as you go out.
Sentence 3: [1.]
Sentence 4: [Reading] "It now appears that the 80th Congress is determined to take no effective action on the proposals which I have submitted to curb high prices and to protect the average American citizen against the certain prospect of increased living costs.
Sentence 5: "I have been informed that the Republican leadership has decided that the Congress will not be allowed to consider really effective measures to stop high prices.
Sentence 6: Republican leaders reached this decision without obtaining the full information that the administration was prepared to offer in connection with my recommendations.
Sentence 7: In fact, the Chairman of the House Committee on Banking and Currency refused a request for three Cabinet members to be given an opportunity to testify before that Committee.
Sentence 8: "The Secretaries of Agriculture, Commerce, and Interior were and are now prepared to testify.
Sentence 9: The Secretary of Agriculture was prepared to offer a program directed to the problem of excessive food prices.
Sentence 10: The Secretary of Commerce was prepared to discuss with the committee the question of shortages of industrial materials and what could be done to correct the situation.
Sentence 11: The Secretary of the Interior was prepared to submit a program dealing with the proper distribution and prices of coal, heating oil, and other fuels.
Sentence 12: The Committee of the House refused to receive the views of these members of my Cabinet.
Sentence 13: In the absence of such basic information, I do not see how the Committee can make an intelligent decision on issues which so gravely affect the welfare of the American people and their standard of living.
Sentence 14: "And, following the same pattern, the Ways and Means Committee of the House refused to give any consideration to the recommendation for an excess profits tax, which is necessary to offset the inflationary effects of the tax bill passed last spring.
Sentence 15: The Chairman of this Committee has not even called a meeting of the Committee since the Congress reconvened.
Sentence 16: "It would appear that the Republican leaders are unwilling to extend to the Congress an opportunity to vote on the issues of direct price control, the authority to impose allocations and priorities, and the other elements of a balanced program which I submitted to the Congress, including provisions to strengthen and reinforce rent control.
Sentence 17: "It now appears that so far the Congress has failed to discharge the tasks for which I called it into special session.
Sentence 18: It is my hope, therefore, that the Republican leadership will reconsider their present plans for quick adjournment and will take action upon the recommendations I have submitted.
Sentence 19: "There is still time for the Congress to fulfill its responsibilities to the American people.
Sentence 20: Our people will not be satisfied with the feeble compromises that apparently are being concocted.
Sentence 21: "
And when you go out, you will find that mimeographed.
Sentence 22: Q. Mr. President, do you plan to call the leaders of Congress down now, to communicate that--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 23: I have called the Democratic leaders of the Congress.
Sentence 24: I haven't called the Republicans.
Sentence 25: Q. Mr. President, again not being able-why don't you call them?
Sentence 26: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 27: Well, I would be glad to see them any time.
Sentence 28: I don't think there's anything I can say to them that will change their viewpoint.
Sentence 29: Q. In other words, you don't think this last-minute appeal will have any effect, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 30: I doubt it very much.
Sentence 31: [2.]
Sentence 32: Q. Mr. President, when are you going to start the campaign?
Sentence 33: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 34: Well, a little later on.
Sentence 35: Probably in September sometime.
Sentence 36: I will let you know when we get ready in time.
Sentence 37: Q. Are you going to open the campaign in Detroit with a Labor Day speech?
Sentence 38: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 39: Several cities under consideration.
Sentence 40: Q. Is Detroit one of them?
Sentence 41: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 42: Detroit happens to be one of them.
Sentence 43: Q. Mr. President, do you plan to appear in upstate New York, particularly the city of Albany?
Sentence 44: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 45: I can't give you any details of the campaign yet.
Sentence 46: When they are ready to be announced, I will let you know in plenty of time, so you can pack your bag.
Sentence 47: Q.
Sentence 48: Do you contemplate going to Wisconsin?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 49: The campaign program is not ready.
Sentence 50: When it is ready, I will give it to you.
Sentence 51: Q. Could you say whether any of the speeches during the campaign will deal with questions of foreign policy?
Sentence 52: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 53: They will speak for themselves.
Sentence 54: When the time comes, I will give you copies in advance.
Sentence 55: [3.]
Sentence 56: Q. Mr. President, do you think that the Republican leader has been negligent in offering leadership to the special session of the Congress?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 57: I have no comment on that.
Sentence 58: [4.]
Sentence 59: Q. Mr. President, do you think that the Capitol Hill spy scare is a "red herring" to divert public attention from inflation?
Sentence 60: 1
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 61: Yes, I do, and I will read you another statement on that, since you brought it up.
Sentence 62: [Laughter]
1
In July and August 1948 Elizabeth Bentley, Louis Budenz, and Whittaker Chambers testified before the House Committee on Un-American activities, and Miss Bentley and Mr. Budenz testified before the Investigations Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments.
Sentence 63: During these hearings they identified a number of former Government officials as members of the Communist Party.
Sentence 64: Their testimony is recorded in "Hearings Before the Committee on Un-American Activities Regarding Communist Espionage in the United States Government," dated July-December 1948 (Government Printing Office, 2 vols., 1474 pp.) and in "Export Policy and Loyalty Hearings Before the Investigations Subcommittee of the Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments," dated July-August 1948 (Government Printing Office, 2 vols., 402 pp.).
Sentence 65: [Reading ] "In response to written requests from congressional groups for information relating to the employment of individuals, the department or agency may forward to the committee all unclassified routine papers, such as Civil Service Form 57, records of promotion, efficiency ratings, letters of recommendation, etc.
"No information of any sort relating to the employee's loyalty, and no investigative data of any type, whether relating to loyalty or other aspects of the individual's record, shall be included in the material submitted to a congressional committee.
Sentence 66: If there is doubt as to whether a certain document or group of documents should be supplied, the matter should be referred to the White House.
Sentence 67: "No information has been revealed by these committees' investigations that has not long since been presented to a Federal grand jury.
Sentence 68: "No information has been disclosed in the past few days by the congressional committees that has not long been known to the FBI.
Sentence 69: "The Federal grand jury found this information insufficient to justify indictment of the Federal employees involved.
Sentence 70: "All but two of the employees involved have left the Federal Government, and these two have been placed on leave without pay before the congressional hearings started.
Sentence 71: "The public hearings now under way are serving no useful purpose.
Sentence 72: On the contrary, they are doing irreparable harm to certain people, seriously impairing the morale of Federal employees, and undermining public confidence in the Government.
Sentence 73: "
And they are simply a "red herring" to keep from doing what they ought to do.
Sentence 74: Q. Don't you think the American public is entitled to this information?
Sentence 75: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 76: What information?
Sentence 77: Q. That has been brought out in these investigations?
Sentence 78: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 79: What useful purpose is it serving when we are having this matter before a grand jury where action has to take place, no matter what this committee does?
Sentence 80: They haven't revealed anything that everybody hasn't known all along, or hasn't been presented to the grand jury.
Sentence 81: That is where it has to be taken, in the first place, if you are going to do anything about it.
Sentence 82: They are slandering a lot of people that don't deserve it.
Sentence 83: Q. Mr. President, could we use a part of the quote there, that last: they are simply a "red herring," etc.?
Sentence 84: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 85: Using this as a "red herring" to keep from doing what they ought to do.
Sentence 86: Q. Are we going to get copies of that?
Sentence 87: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 88: Yes.
Sentence 89: Q. Mr. President, the reports of the hearings yesterday indicated that John Sullivan might ask you with respect to the Remington
1
--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 90: That is the answer for John Sullivan.
Sentence 91: 1
On July 30 Elizabeth Bentley testified before the Investigations Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments.
Sentence 92: She identified William W. Remington, a former official of the Department of Commerce, as a Communist who had given secret data to her when she served as a Soviet courier.
Sentence 93: On July 31 Mr. Remington, in testimony before the Subcommittee, denied Miss Bentley's allegations.
Sentence 94: He revealed that he had been requested to resign from the Naval Reserve.
Sentence 95: On August 4 Secretary of the Navy John L. Sullivan supported several admirals who refused to testify on the Remington resignation because they felt that it would be a violation of administration policies.
Sentence 96: The testimony of Miss Bentley and Mr. Remington is recorded in "Export Policy and Loyalty Hearings Before the Investigations Subcommittee of the Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments," dated July-August 1948 (Government Printing Office, 2 vols., 402 pp.).
Sentence 97: Q.
Sentence 98: What?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 99: That is the answer for John Sullivan, right there.
Sentence 100: Q. Does that mean they won't get the information on Remington?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 101: They will get all the information that they are entitled to on Remington.
Sentence 102: They will not get any confidential information on him.
Sentence 103: Q. Why was Remington asked to resign from the Navy?
Sentence 104: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 105: I don't know anything about that.
Sentence 106: You will have to ask the Navy about that.
Sentence 107: I can't answer the question because I don't know.
Sentence 108: I didn't even know he had been asked to resign.
Sentence 109: Q.
Sentence 110: The Navy puts it up to you, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 111: Well, I haven't the information available.
Sentence 112: Q. You mean, Mr. President, you think that both Senate and House committees ought to call a halt on these investigations now?
Sentence 113: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 114: Well, that is up to Congress.
Sentence 115: I have said it as plainly as I can.
Sentence 116: [5.]
Sentence 117: Q. Mr. President, in view of the imminence of the campaign, when will the President of Cuba come up on this visit?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 118: I can't answer that question.
Sentence 119: I don't know.
Sentence 120: [6.]
Sentence 121: Q. Mr. President, would you bracket the Senate and House committees in this statement you just made on Congress?
Sentence 122: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 123: Yes.
Sentence 124: Q. Mr. President, Mr. Mundt, the acting chairman of the Un-American Committee, says today that there is now a Communist spy ring operating in the Capital?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 125: Its in his mind, I think.
Sentence 126: Q.
Sentence 127: If there wasn't ever anything to it, why did the FBI start the investigation?
Sentence 128: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 129: To be on the safe side, of course.
Sentence 130: They got a lot of indictments on these people in New York, on those that got indicted.
Sentence 131: 1
That was the reason for it.
Sentence 132: Everything has been presented to the grand jury that they wanted to know about, and if it was possible to indict these people, they would have been indicted.
Sentence 133: 1
On July 20, 1948, 12 high-ranking members of the Communist Party were indicted in New York City by a special Federal grand jury that had been investigating Communist activities for more than a year.
Sentence 134: All 12 were accused of conspiring to violate the Smith Act, a defense measure passed in June 1940.
Sentence 135: The indictment stated that they had conspired "to organize as the Communist Party of the United States a society, group or assembly of persons who teach and advocate the overthrow and destruction of the Government of the United States by force and violence ....
Sentence 136: "
[7.]
Sentence 137: Q. Mr. President, have you received a letter from the Governor of Vermont, acting for the New England Governors, relative to a shortage of pig iron up there?
Sentence 138: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 139: I haven't seen it yet.
Sentence 140: I saw in the paper I was going to receive it, though.
Sentence 141: [8.]
Sentence 142: Q. Mr. President, going back to the oil and fuel statement, do you know of any way the administration can prevent another fuel crisis on the Atlantic coast this winter, without price control legislation?
Sentence 143: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 144: I do not.
Sentence 145: I do not.
Sentence 146: [9.]
Sentence 147: Q. Mr. President, the Soviet-licensed newspaper in Berlin said this morning that General Clay was going to be replaced, and that his successor would report directly to the State Department.
Sentence 148: Would you comment?
Sentence 149: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 150: It isn't true.
Sentence 151: [10.]
Sentence 152: Q. Mr. President, have you decided to appoint the Secretary of Labor?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 153: I will announce it whenever I have the man ready.
Sentence 154: [11.]
Sentence 155: Q. Mr. President, 3 years ago, I believe, you gave the order for the first atomic bomb to be used.
Sentence 156: Do you still feel hopeful that atomic weapons will be outlawed?
Sentence 157: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 158: Yes, I do.
Sentence 159: I sincerely hope that they will be outlawed.
Sentence 160: [12.]
Sentence 161: Q. Mr. President, do you know when there will be a statement on the results of the Moscow talks?
Sentence 162: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 163: No, I do not.
Sentence 164: General Marshall and I are having a conference today.
Sentence 165: Q. Are you hopeful about these talks, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 166: I am always hopeful for peace.
Sentence 167: Q.
Sentence 168: Can you give us any details on what has been going on in Moscow?
Sentence 169: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 170: I can give you no details whatever.
Sentence 171: No comment of any sort on any of these foreign questions at all, except the one about General Clay.
Sentence 172: [13.]
Sentence 173: Q. Mr. President, in California I believe you said that Governor Warren was a Democrat and didn't know it.
Sentence 174: Have you changed your mind on that?
Sentence 175: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 176: He evidently is a thoroughbred Republican.
Sentence 177: He was nominated for Vice President.
Sentence 178: [Laughter] I don't think the Republican platform agrees with his views, however.
Sentence 179: Reporter:
Sentence 180: Thank you, Mr. President.
