Sentence 1: 1948 Informal Remarks Washington
Sentence 2: [1.] BREMERTON, WASHINGTON (Elks Club, 11:40 a.m.)
Mr. Mayor, Governor Wallgren, Secretary Krug, and citizens of Bremerton:
I can't tell you how highly pleased I am to see this wonderful turnout this morning.
Sentence 3: I think it is always well to travel in good company, and I am sure that I am in good company this morning when I have the Mayor of this great city, the Governor, and the Senator from Washington, and the Secretary of the Interior.
Sentence 4: That certainly ought to bring you out; as it has.
Sentence 5: I have had a most pleasant trip across this great State.
Sentence 6: I spent yesterday morning at Grand Coulee Dam where there is more than a million acre-feet of water pouring over that dam every 24 hours.
Sentence 7: It is a magnificent sight.
Sentence 8: I tried to figure that out in gallons, and there are so many figures it looks like light years from here to the North Star.
Sentence 9: It is a pity that we couldn't put all that water to work in this great State, and in other States in which the Columbia River runs or borders.
Sentence 10: Sometime or other, when we get this program finished in the Columbia River Basin, there will be very little waste water, and there will be few floods that do any damage.
Sentence 11: I am very much interested in the welfare of this Northwest country.
Sentence 12: You know, you made a great contribution to the war effort here, particularly in this town.
Sentence 13: I made two investigations over here, when I was chairman of a committee in the Senate whose job it was to see that that war effort was properly carried out, and I am happy to say that the then Senator Wallgren and myself found nothing wrong here and at this Navy Yard.
Sentence 14: You worked efficiently.
Sentence 15: You turned out the work.
Sentence 16: We are now trying to arrange things so as to have a national defense program for peace, just as we had a war program to win the war.
Sentence 17: We must have a defense program for peace because in order to enforce the peace you must have the power behind it to enforce it.
Sentence 18: That is axiomatic and fundamental.
Sentence 19: You couldn't even have a government in this town if you didn't have an efficient police force to see that the laws were enforced.
Sentence 20: We are endeavoring now to make the United Nations work, and it is working.
Sentence 21: I was very happy this morning to find that the truce had been signed between the Arabs and the Jews in Palestine.
Sentence 22: That is a victory for the United Nations.
Sentence 23: And it is also a victory for the United Nations when they signed a truce in the East Indies--in Indonesia.
Sentence 24: We must keep working at this thing until we get the peace implemented.
Sentence 25: When I speak before the University of California graduating class, I want to tell you a lot of things about the foreign affairs of this country in which you are interested.
Sentence 26: Again, I am most happy to be in this great State of Washington.
Sentence 27: I have just had an honor conferred upon me right here.
Sentence 28: The Olympic Junior College has made me an Honorary Associate in Arts.
Sentence 29: You know, my daughter graduated from George Washington University a year or two ago to receive a degree, and they gave me one, too.
Sentence 30: She worked 4 years to get hers, and I got mine right then and there, without any effort!
Sentence 31: That is the way I got this one, this one here, without any effort on my part, although I hope to deserve it, and I hope to earn it at a later date, maybe.
Sentence 32: Some time or other, a little later on in the year, I hope it will be possible for me to come back here and discuss the issues before us at that time.
Sentence 33: I am not on a political tour this time, at least that is what the newspapers say.
Sentence 34: But I want to say to you that it doesn't make any difference what the President does, if you just take a walk in the morning, it has political significance.
Sentence 35: That is as it should be, because the Office of the President represents the people.
Sentence 36: He is elected by all the people.
Sentence 37: He is the only official except the Vice President who is elected by all the people.
Sentence 38: He is responsible to all the people when he is President, and the people have a right to know what he thinks and what he is trying to do.
Sentence 39: I have taken this tour over the country here to let you know what I am trying to do as President of the United States.
Sentence 40: I have been so hopelessly misrepresented on various matters that I thought I had better come out and let you look at me to see whether I am the kind of fellow they say I am or not.
Sentence 41: A little later on, when politics really begins to boil, you can make up your mind as to whether you had a President the last 3 years or not.
Sentence 42: The country is running--the country is prosperous, and everybody is happy except for one thing, and that is the way that price spiral has been going up.
Sentence 43: If they had carried out all the recommendations which I made to the Congress, we would have had control of that, too.
Sentence 44: You know, this Congress is interested in the welfare of the better classes.
Sentence 45: They are not interested in the welfare of the common everyday man.
Sentence 46: They said if we lifted price controls, and things of that sort, business would take care of prices.
Sentence 47: Well, business has taken care of prices, for the welfare and the benefit of the fellows at the top.
Sentence 48: The poor man is having to pay out all his money for rent and for clothing and for food at prices that are certainly outrageous.
Sentence 49: Voice: Pour it on, Harry!
I'm going to--I'm going to!
Sentence 50: As I said in Butte the other night, if this Congress adjourned before it had done something about prices, and something about the welfare of the laboringman, and something about housing, it would be a disgrace to this country.
Sentence 51: I want to bring that home to you strongly in every place I can, for the simple reason that this Congress is going to adjourn pretty soon.
Sentence 52: They say on the 18th.
Sentence 53: Then they are going down to Philadelphia in a few days and are going to tell you what a great Congress they have been.
Sentence 54: Well, if you believe that, you are bigger suckers than I think you are.
Sentence 55: Again I want to thank you very much for this cordial welcome.
Sentence 56: I was in Spokane yesterday, and there were just about 2 or 3 acres of people, as there are here.
Sentence 57: It looks to me like there are more people here this morning than I have seen together in a long, long time in one place.
Sentence 58: And I appreciate that.
Sentence 59: I think that is a compliment to me.
Sentence 60: I have sad news this morning--very sad news.
Sentence 61: I heard that the former Senator, former judge and former Secretary of Labor passed away this morning.
Sentence 62: Lew Schwellenbach, one of the closest friends I had in the Senate when I was there.
Sentence 63: A close friend of your Governor, a close friend of Senator Magnuson.
Sentence 64: He passed away this morning at Walter Reed Hospital in Washington.
Sentence 65: It was a sad blow to me.
Sentence 66: He was an able Senator, a just judge, and I think the greatest Secretary of Labor that I have known.
Sentence 67: I am certainly sorry that I have to make that announcement to you.
Sentence 68: I thought very highly of Lew Schwellenbach.
Sentence 69: He was an able, efficient public servant.
Sentence 70: And that is just what he was.
Sentence 71: Thank you very much.
Sentence 72: [2.]
Sentence 73: SEATTLE, WASHINGTON (On the Pier, 2 p.m.)
Mr. Mayor, Governor Wallgren, and other distinguished guests:
Sentence 74: I am most happy to be in Seattle again.
Sentence 75: I have had a very pleasant and instructive morning over at the Bremerton Navy Yard.
Sentence 76: I made some inspections of that Navy Yard during the war, and found it efficiently operated.
Sentence 77: It is interesting to see the Navy ships that are tied up now that were in operation during the war.
Sentence 78: I sincerely hope that it will never be necessary to untie them, although we should keep them in shape so that if it is necessary, we can do it efficiently and quickly.
Sentence 79: I wish I had more time here, but I am running on a schedule and we are late, so I will have to bid you a howdy-do and goodbye.
Sentence 80: [3.]
Sentence 81: SEATTLE, WASHINGTON (Press club address, 2:30 p.m., see Item 125)
Sentence 82: [4.]
Sentence 83: TACOMA, WASHINGTON (5:25 p.m.)
Sentence 84: Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, Governor Wallgren, distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen of Tacoma, Washington:
I am very happy that we were able to stop at Tacoma today.
Sentence 85: I was here some years ago with the then Senator Wallgren and the then Congressman Magnuson and we had a setup right here on one of these streets on a truck.
Sentence 86: We all three made speeches for the Democratic Party.
Sentence 87: And after that Mon ran for Governor and was elected, and Magnuson ran for Senator and was elected.
Sentence 88: And, well--you see where I am!
Sentence 89: I am very happy that Mr. Krug could come out to this northwest corner of the Nation while I am here, because Mr. Krug is a responsible officer in the Cabinet for the things in which this part of the world is most interested, and he does an excellent job of it.
Sentence 90: I appreciated most highly what he said awhile ago.
Sentence 91: I have never heard him say it before.
Sentence 92: It made me feel right good.
Sentence 93: All of us like to have a pat on the back once in a while, and since your President usually gets kicks, a pat is very, very, very comfortable.
Sentence 94: I am interested in this part of the country.
Sentence 95: I have always been interested in this part of the country.
Sentence 96: It was my duty during the war to make investigations in this part of the State of Washington.
Sentence 97: I was in Seattle and Spokane, and I didn't hold any hearings here in Tacoma, but we examined the waterfront here in Tacoma and made a report on it.
Sentence 98: I have been vitally interested in the food and the production capacity of the Northwest, especially with relation to those metals which were so vital during the war.
Sentence 99: This part of the country made an immense contribution to the winning of that war.
Sentence 100: It would have taken longer and have cost many more lives, had it not been for these immense power projects which were on the Columbia River.
Sentence 101: And that power project is not half finished.
Sentence 102: I was told yesterday that there is a potential development of power in the Columbia River Basin of 50 million kilowatts.
Sentence 103: Now that is just as many kilowatts as all the privately-owned plants in the United States produce today.
Sentence 104: Think of that!
Sentence 105: You know what that would mean to this corner of the world, if that project is finally finished?
Sentence 106: That is what I am talking for.
Sentence 107: I am anxious to see that project finished.
Sentence 108: I am interested in a lot of things that I have been trying to get through the Congress.
Sentence 109: I have sent message after message to the Congress time after time on things which are in the public interest, and they have done nothing about them.
Sentence 110: They have shelved most of them.
Sentence 111: They have cut the appropriations on these particular projects I am talking about, and those appropriations which they have allowed they have tied them up with so many things and hampered what we are trying to do, that they might as well not have the appropriations as far as that is concerned.
Sentence 112: I am sorry for that.
Sentence 113: I am sorry for this Congress, because they are going to have to come out and tell you what they did, and unless they do something in the next 3 or 4 days, it isn't going to be very much.
Sentence 114: In 1945, in November, I asked the Congress to extend the price control law another year from June 30, 1946.
Sentence 115: In January 1946 I asked that same question of the Congress and suggested that they do that.
Sentence 116: In May 1946 I asked them again to extend the price control law so we could gradually release the price controls as production caught up with consumption.
Sentence 117: I didn't like price controls any better than the Congress did but I feared very much what would happen.
Sentence 118: On June 30, 1946, the day of the expiration of the law, they sent me an impossible renewal of the price control law, and I vetoed it.
Sentence 119: And in 30 days they sent me another one almost as bad, and I had to sign it, but it didn't work.
Sentence 120: And then in 1946, along in November, about two-thirds of the people stayed at home, and you elected the 80th Congress.
Sentence 121: After that price control law went out, prices began to skyrocket.
Sentence 122: The price of food has gone all the way off the graph, and is still going.
Sentence 123: The price of clothing is just about to catch up with it.
Sentence 124: And if the real estate lobby in Washington has as much influence as the other lobbies have, they are going to take rent controls off, and then we will be gone, sure enough.
Sentence 125: I am afraid of inflation.
Sentence 126: And I have been trying to stop inflation.
Sentence 127: But I can't do it by myself.
Sentence 128: I can't do it by myself.
Sentence 129: You housewives who have to pay for the food know what the difference in the pay envelope is now, and what it was just after the war was over.
Sentence 130: You see, that price control law--that wartime price control law--was a consumers price control law.
Sentence 131: These fellows told us that if price controls came off that prices would adjust themselves.
Sentence 132: Well, prices have adjusted themselves, in favor of the fellow who is gouging the public today.
Sentence 133: He is in this position: he is fixing the prices for all the traffic will bear, and you are paying the bill-- you are paying the bill, and so am I.
Last November, when I called the special session of the Congress, I asked for ten major controls, on a standby basis, to meet the situation with which we were faced.
Sentence 134: They passed an innocuous law which did not mean a thing--didn't do a bit of good, because those prices are still going up.
Sentence 135: I hope Congress--although I haven't much hope--will take notice of the situation and do something about it, and quit listening to the lobbyists.
Sentence 136: They have got the greatest gathering of lobbyists in Washington that has ever been formed in the country, and they are working for a special interest Congress.
Sentence 137: And that is a special interest Congress.
Sentence 138: Just bear that in mind--a special interest Congress.
Sentence 139: They passed a rich man's tax law, a relief tax bill law--relief for the rich.
Sentence 140: That is just exactly what it was.
Sentence 141: I suggested that they let that tax bill alone and pay some of our debts.
Sentence 142: We owe $257 billions in debts, although that debt has been reduced $20 billion since I have been President.
Sentence 143: We could have reduced that debt another $7 billion, if they hadn't tinkered with that tax bill.
Sentence 144: But, you know, this is 1948.
Sentence 145: This is 1948, and everybody wants to get elected, and doesn't think much about paying off debts.
Sentence 146: When a man has money that is when he ought to pay his debts, and when a government has money incoming, that is when the government ought to pay its debts.
Sentence 147: They knew the European recovery program was coming on.
Sentence 148: They knew very well what we were going to be faced with.
Sentence 149: Do you know what they have done now?
Sentence 150: We have got a surplus this year had a surplus last year for the first time in a long time, and they are transferring part of that surplus into 1949 so far as to cover up the deficit which will be caused by this rich man's tax law.
Sentence 151: Now, if that is commonsense, and if that is good government, then I don't know anything about government, and I do.
Sentence 152: I do know something about it, for I spent 10 years in the Senate of the United States, and I have been President of the United States for 3 years, and I have had a lot of experience.
Sentence 153: And I am trying to work in your interest, in the public interest.
Sentence 154: That is why I had to come out here and let you look at me, and let you see for yourself what the facts are with regard to what has been going on in the last 3 years.
Sentence 155: I don't think there is a President in the history of the United States who has been as thoroughly misrepresented as I have been.
Sentence 156: I never thought much of a lie, because nobody believes a lie if he has a chance to find out the truth.
Sentence 157: And that is the reason why I am here, to find what the truth is, to help make up your mind whether you have had a good President or not.
Sentence 158: We are going to find the records, and I am going to explain them from one end of the country to the other, and the people are going to know just what the conditions are, so that when this 80th Congress adjourns, and they go off to Philadelphia later on, and they will be telling you what they did, I am going to tell you what they didn't do.
Sentence 159: Then you can make up your own minds.
Sentence 160: Thank you very much.
Sentence 161: [5.]
Sentence 162: OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON (Sylvester Park, 6:50 p.m.)
Mr. Mayor, Governor Wallgren, and the citizens of Olympia:
Sentence 163: It certainly is a pleasure to see this turnout at this time of the day.
Sentence 164: I should think everybody would be hungry and would be at home getting something to eat.
Sentence 165: I never have had in all my life a more cordial welcome than I have had today.
Sentence 166: Never have had a more cordial welcome than at Bremerton, and we had an ovation at Seattle.
Sentence 167: The Mayor said it was the greatest show he had seen in Seattle in all time.
Sentence 168: Then Tacoma was a repeat.
Sentence 169: Now here we are in the capital city of the great State of Washington, just waiting to land on the Governor in the Governor's mansion.
Sentence 170: It is a fine place.
Sentence 171: I offered to trade the White House for it, but he wouldn't trade with me.
Sentence 172: This has been an education to me, this trip through the Northwest.
Sentence 173: I have seen a great many things of vital importance to this Nation.
Sentence 174: I know that all of you are interested in the welfare of the country.
Sentence 175: The welfare of the country consists of the welfare of all the people.
Sentence 176: That means that we will have a prosperous Nation.
Sentence 177: We have got to have prosperous labor, prosperous capital, prosperous farmers, and all the citizens have to be prosperous.
Sentence 178: And they are just about that now, if we can hold those prices down like it ought to be done.
Sentence 179: We haven't been able to do it so far because we haven't been able to get the right kind of cooperation from the Congress, but I know eventually we are going to do the thing as it ought to be done.
Sentence 180: Everybody in the United States is at work.
Sentence 181: There are more people at work this month than there ever have been at work in the history of the Nation.
Sentence 182: There are 61 million people at work now in the United States.
Sentence 183: The national income is about $200 billion.
Sentence 184: The banks are full of money, and that money is safe, because it is guaranteed by the Government of the United States--as a result of the policy of this administration.
Sentence 185: There has not been a bank failure in the United States for 3 years.
Sentence 186: That is a record never equaled before in the history of the country.
Sentence 187: And that is because the people of the country have confidence in their banking system, and in their country.
Sentence 188: I want you to know your Government.
Sentence 189: I want you to look into public affairs as they are.
Sentence 190: Educate yourselves.
Sentence 191: You don't want to do like you did in 1946.
Sentence 192: Two-thirds of you stayed at home in 1946, and look what a Congress we got!
Sentence 193: That is your fault, that is your fault.
Sentence 194: I am not to blame for that.
Sentence 195: I have been telling them for 3 years exactly what to do.
Sentence 196: Well, you will hear them say in Philadelphia next week that they have done many a big thing in this Congress, but I want you to edit that very carefully, and I don't think you will find there is very much, unless they do something in the next 2 or 3 days.
Sentence 197: I have been pouring it on them pretty heavy here lately.
Sentence 198: Maybe they will take the hint and do something.
Sentence 199: I would be very happy if they do that.
Sentence 200: Of course it would make a much better campaign if they don't.
Sentence 201: Then I am going to come out here and go all over the country, and tell you people exactly what has taken place in the last 3 years.
Sentence 202: Then I am going to let the country know what has taken place in the last 12 years.
Sentence 203: Then I may tell them what took place 12 years before that.
Sentence 204: Then if you people want to continue the policies of the 80th Congress, that will be your funeral.
Sentence 205: Thank you.
