Sentence 1: 1948 Address Bonham Texas

Speaker Rayburn--I say that advisedly-Governor Jester, Governor Turner of Oklahoma, and distinguished guests:
Sentence 2: I have a warm spot in my heart for Texas.
Sentence 3: Texas has given me some of the best friends a man ever had, and a great many of them are on this platform with me tonight.
Sentence 4: There's John Myer, and Wright Patman, and Lyndon Johnson--candidates for Congress in the great State of Texas, who are real men, and who have always been for the people first.
Sentence 5: And then you have nominated a man for the Senate, my good friend, and the friend of the people of Texas, Lyndon Johnson.
Sentence 6: The people of Oklahoma have nominated my good friend, Bob Kerr, for the Senate in Oklahoma, and if Lyndon Johnson and Bob Kerr get to the Senate, we'll make those Republicans dance in the next session.
Sentence 7: I am more than happy to be here today in the hometown of one of the finest and best friends of them all--Sam Rayburn.
Sentence 8: I understand that Sam asked you folks to come out here today so we could talk a little politics.
Sentence 9: I'm glad so many of you came, because it shows that you're interested in your Government--and interested in the kind of government you're going to have after the election next November.
Sentence 10: One thing is certain.
Sentence 11: In Texas, it's going to be Democratic government, as it has been in the past; and that's a good way to keep it, because the Democratic Party is the party that works for the people.
Sentence 12: So far as the Federal Government is concerned, the Republicans are putting on an immense propaganda campaign in an effort to take over this year.
Sentence 13: They are spending tremendous sums of money and lining up all kinds of strange bedfellows.
Sentence 14: I just don't believe they're going to get away with it.
Sentence 15: We Democrats are going to see that the American people know the facts.
Sentence 16: When they do, I don't think the people will be taken in by slick Republican propaganda.
Sentence 17: I don't believe that Texas--or the rest of the United States--wants to go back to the days of Harding, Coolidge, and Hoover.
Sentence 18: The country will make a fundamental decision on election day--a decision which will affect you every year and every day for the rest of your lives.
Sentence 19: The people will have to decide between the Democratic and the Republican Parties; and that is really a decision between two different kinds of government.
Sentence 20: The Democratic Party will give you the kind of government that Sam Rayburn stands for--government in the interest of the farmer and the workingman and all the people.
Sentence 21: And when the Democrats have a majority in the House of Representatives, Sam Rayburn will have a powerful voice in seeing that you get the kind of government you ought to have.
Sentence 22: Some people have wondered why I keep on talking about the Republican 80th "do-nothing" Congress.
Sentence 23: Well, I'll tell you why.
Sentence 24: It's because they raised a storm warning that tells us what we could expect, if we had a Republican President as well as a Republican Congress.
Sentence 25: We might have "unity" then.
Sentence 26: I don't know.
Sentence 27: But if we did have unity, what kind would it be?
Sentence 28: Well, it would be the unity of the Martins, and the Tabers, and the Wherrys, and the Tarts.
Sentence 29: Then it would be unity in giving tax relief to the rich at the expense of the poor--unity in refusing to give aid to our schools--unity in letting prices go sky high in order to protect excessive profits--unity in whittling away all the benefits of the New Deal, about which the Republicans are so scornful.
Sentence 30: But they have never yet offered to repeal any of the New Deal measures that were put on the books in the last 16 years.
Sentence 31: Do you want that kind of unity?
Sentence 32: Do you want that kind of unity?
Sentence 33: Well, I don't either.
Sentence 34: Some things are worth fighting for.
Sentence 35: We have to fight the special interest lobbies instead of being "unified" by them.
Sentence 36: We must fight isolationists and reactionaries, the profiteers and the privileged class.
Sentence 37: The way to fight it is to fight them with votes.
Sentence 38: When the people know the leaders of the Republican Party are tied up with big business and the special interests, then the people will know how to deal with them at the polls.
Sentence 39: That is why I keep talking about these Republicans in the 80th Congress and what they did to the people.
Sentence 40: Part of the story is of special concern to the Texas farmer, although it affects every American.
Sentence 41: That is the attitude of the Republican Party toward international trade.
Sentence 42: The 80th Congress has shown that the Republican Party is still a high-tariff party of Smoot and Hawley, and Joe Grundy.
Sentence 43: And you can't expect anyone under an obligation to Joe Grundy to change it into some other kind of party.
Sentence 44: When Cordell Hull wrote the reciprocal trade agreements program which came up for renewal this year, the Republicans in Congress insisted on a lot of crippling amendments.
Sentence 45: Moreover, they renewed it for only 1 year instead of the usual 3; and now, apparently, they wanted to be in a position to do something next year that they didn't dare do this year, because this year is an election year.
Sentence 46: It's obvious what they want to do next year.
Sentence 47: They just want to kill the program entirely.
Sentence 48: This is a matter of concern to every man, woman, and child in the United States, because it vitally affects our prospects for world peace.
Sentence 49: A thriving world trade is essential to world prosperity.
Sentence 50: And prosperity is fundamental to peace and security.
Sentence 51: When a man gets too hungry he gets desperate.
Sentence 52: Just the same way with nations.
Sentence 53: Poverty and distress breed war.
Sentence 54: Foreign trade is not merely a way to keep prosperity.
Sentence 55: It is the best way to insure peace.
Sentence 56: Your Government is making every effort to establish a just and permanent peace.
Sentence 57: That has always been the main objective of my administration.
Sentence 58: For that purpose the Democratic administration established a bipartisan foreign policy, taking the Republican Party into our confidence and working with them in matters concerning our relations with other countries.
Sentence 59: One of the great architects of our foreign policy, as you know, is your own Senator Tom Connally.
Sentence 60: From the beginning Tom Connally has contributed a full measure of hard work and statesmanship in making the policy work.
Sentence 61: The bipartisan foreign policy has added greatly to the strength of our efforts for peace.
Sentence 62: But the peace can be no more secure than the foundations upon which it rests.
Sentence 63: And if the Republican Party will not join us in establishing a firm basis for world trade, the foundation of peace will be very shaky, indeed.
Sentence 64: Vigorous world trade is necessary to maintain our domestic prosperity.
Sentence 65: The farmers of Texas know the truth of that statement from the hard lesson of experience.
Sentence 66: They know that adequate foreign markets help to provide stable farm incomes.
Sentence 67: They know that barriers to foreign trade mean farm depression.
Sentence 68: Let me give you an illustration.
Sentence 69: During World War I, American wheat growers expanded their production to meet the great foreign demand for wheat.
Sentence 70: Shortly after that war, the foreign markets dried up, and the wheat farmers were left high and dry.
Sentence 71: You know what happened to prices--they kept falling until finally many farmers were selling wheat for 25 cents a bushel.
Sentence 72: The same thing happened to cotton.
Sentence 73: The Republican high tariffs and trade barriers put up after the first World War cut down the trade in cotton and put the cotton prices on the skids.
Sentence 74: Farmers were finally selling cotton for 5 cents a pound.
Sentence 75: You know that the Republicans who were then in office did absolutely nothing about it.
Sentence 76: Now, we are faced with problems like those that followed the first World War.
Sentence 77: This year we are producing bumper crops of cotton and grain.
Sentence 78: We mean to keep on producing big crops.
Sentence 79: The world needs our crops, and our farmers want to sell them.
Sentence 80: Other countries want to sell their products to the United States to pay for what they buy.
Sentence 81: And we in the United States need the products they want to sell.
Sentence 82: The Democratic administration has been doing a great deal to protect the export markets for your crops.
Sentence 83: I have spoken of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements.
Sentence 84: Also, your Government has taken the lead in setting up the International Trade Organization.
Sentence 85: In addition we negotiated a special international agreement relating to wheat.
Sentence 86: The practical effect of the International Wheat Agreement would have been just this.
Sentence 87: Now, listen carefully.
Sentence 88: Our farmers would have had guaranteed markets, domestic and foreign, for billion-bushel wheat crops for a minimum of 5 years, at prices at least as good as those assured by our price support program.
Sentence 89: The Wheat Agreement was submitted to the United States Senate to be ratified as a treaty.
Sentence 90: What happened to it?
Sentence 91: The Republican leadership of the Senate wouldn't even allow it to be brought up on the floor of the Senate for consideration.
Sentence 92: The Republicans killed the International Wheat Agreement.
Sentence 93: That is how they love the farmers.
Sentence 94: This is the kind of treatment the farmer has been getting from the Republican Party, and that's the kind of treatment he can expect to keep on getting from that party.
Sentence 95: Don't you forget that, now, on election day.
Sentence 96: Look at what they have been saying about cotton.
Sentence 97: The Republican press has been having a field day warning people that the Government may have to make a lot of cotton loans this year at a rate of around 30 cents a pound.
Sentence 98: They talk as if that is a bad thing to do.
Sentence 99: They use it as an argument against the whole support price program.
Sentence 100: They don't tell you how cotton loans rescued the farmer from the mess of 1932, or how useful Government stocks were during World War Two.
Sentence 101: They don't tell you that the Truman administration set up a vigorous cotton export program at the end of the war and completely wiped out the last of the cotton surplus--the headache that had plagued farmers for a quarter of a century.
Sentence 102: Yes, and we've still got a vigorous cotton export policy.
Sentence 103: Sam Rayburn can tell you about the $150,000,000 revolving fund that he finally pushed through a reluctant Congress in June.
Sentence 104: That fund will help us keep on using American cotton in the occupied areas of Germany and Japan.
Sentence 105: As long as I have anything to say about it, we'll keep on knocking down trade barriers and opening up foreign markets for American cotton.
Sentence 106: And we will drive just as hard to hold and expand the home market, by improving the product, finding new uses, and cutting costs of production.
Sentence 107: The Republicans tell you not to worry, while they threaten the Reciprocal Trade Agreements, not to worry while they refuse international cooperation through a wheat agreement, and not to worry while they attack your price supports.
Sentence 108: This shows very clearly the real principle of the Republican Party.
Sentence 109: That is the "trickle-down" principle.
Sentence 110: Take care of the big boys and some of the money will trickle down to the little fellow.
Sentence 111: That's just the opposite of the Democratic way.
Sentence 112: Our primary concern is for the little fellow.
Sentence 113: We think the big boys have always done very well, taking care of themselves, and they will always take care of themselves.
Sentence 114: It is the business of the Government to see that the little fellow gets a square deal.
Sentence 115: As a matter of fact, I have nothing against the big boys until they get in the way of progress.
Sentence 116: You sometimes find one who wants the little fellow to get a break.
Sentence 117: But that is very seldom; you don't find them very often.
Sentence 118: Ask Sam Rayburn how many of the big money boys helped, when he was sweating blood to get electricity for farmers and the people in the small towns.
Sentence 119: You know, Sam was one of the fathers of the Rural Electrification Administration.
Sentence 120: It's a great monument to him.
Sentence 121: When he started working to get REA, you folks in Texas had electricity on very few farms--only on 23 farms in every thousand.
Sentence 122: Last year, over half of the farms in Texas had electricity.
Sentence 123: And we intend to push that program vigorously during the next 4 years.
Sentence 124: That's an example of what I mean, when I say that the Democratic Party works for the people.
Sentence 125: And in this case, as in so many others, the Democratic Party did it over violent Republican opposition.
Sentence 126: There have been six record votes in Congress on REA.
Sentence 127: In all but one of those record votes, only about 12 to 25 percent of the Republicans voted in favor of the REA.
Sentence 128: The vast majority of Republicans opposed REA, and the vast majority of Democrats supported it.
Sentence 129: The REA program owes its birth and its present life and vigor to the Democratic Party.
Sentence 130: I am deeply concerned about what the Republicans would do to the rural electrification program, if they could get control of the whole Government.
Sentence 131: I know that the Republican Both Congress was not willing to bring low cost electric power to consumers that would stand in the way of the profits of the private power monopolies.
Sentence 132: And that power monopoly had one of the most powerful lobbies in Washington that ever came there.
Sentence 133: I could go on and on about Republican failures.
Sentence 134: They've made enough mistakes to give me ammunition to talk from now to Christmas.
Sentence 135: But I don't want to wear out my welcome in Texas.
Sentence 136: After all, nothing I could say about the Republicans is half as bad as their record.
Sentence 137: In fact, it is because the Republican record is so bad that I am sure the Democrats will win this election.
Sentence 138: I have a profound faith in the people of this country.
Sentence 139: I believe in their commonsense.
Sentence 140: They love freedom and that love for freedom and justice is not dead.
Sentence 141: Our people believe today, as Jefferson did, that men were not born with saddles on their backs to be ridden by the privileged few.
Sentence 142: We believe, as Jefferson did, that "God who gave us life gave us liberty."
Sentence 143: We protect our liberty against those who threaten it from abroad, and we do not propose to give it up to those who threaten it at home.
Sentence 144: We will not give up our democratic way to a dictatorship of the left; neither will we give it up to a despotism of special privilege.
Sentence 145: The people of this congressional district have shown that they share these convictions.
Sentence 146: They have shown it by sending Sam Rayburn to Congress time after time.
Sentence 147: And when I go down to the Capitol to address the Congress next January, I expect to see Sam Rayburn sitting up in the Speaker's chair where he belongs.
Sentence 148: Thank you very much.
