Sentence 1: 1948 Remarks The Young Democrats Dinner

Mr. President of the Young Democrats, Mr. Chairman of the National Democratic Committee, distinguished guests, and Young Democrats:
It is a very great privilege for me to be here this evening, and it is a double pleasure to look down on so many smiling, shining faces, and to see so much enthusiasm among the Democrats.
Sentence 2: You know, there are a lot of calamity howlers who have been going around over the country telling us a lot of things that are not so.
Sentence 3: The Republicans, you know, are expected to nominate a candidate for President.
Sentence 4: They are having a lot of trouble deciding on just who that candidate for President will be, and for just what he stands.
Sentence 5: I am exceedingly anxious to see the Republican platform of 1948.
Sentence 6: You know, it has been their habit since 1936 of taking a few planks out of the old Democratic platforms and building a platform, and then saying, "Me too.
Sentence 7: "
I want to say to you that for the next 4 years there will be a Democrat in the White House, and you are looking at him!
Sentence 8: I was not mistaken when I said what I did about those bright, young faces here tonight!
Sentence 9: You know, this great country of ours has been faced with emergencies, and it has been necessary to meet great causes.
Sentence 10: We have always succeeded in meeting them.
Sentence 11: That first one was in 1776, when the Republic was first conceived.
Sentence 12: In that year there was a great cause; and the people of the Thirteen Colonies met that situation.
Sentence 13: And then in 1787, when the next great crisis came, they met and constructed the Constitution of the United States, the greatest document of government that ever has been written--the foundation of this great republic.
Sentence 14: It has been the custom of Democrats, since that Constitution was adopted, to meet the situations where the welfare of the common, everyday man has been at stake.
Sentence 15: Thomas Jefferson met that situation in 1801--the first people's candidate.
Sentence 16: Then old Andrew Jackson came along, and he took the United States Bank by the nape of the neck and threw it out of the city of Philadelphia.
Sentence 17: He was working in the interests of the common, everyday citizen.
Sentence 18: And Grover Cleveland met the situation in 1884 when he was elected, after a long period of Republican rule.
Sentence 19: Special privilege had become so well entrenched that it took a man of Cleveland's ability to throw the rascals out.
Sentence 20: And he did it!
Sentence 21: And Woodrow Wilson came along with the New Freedom, and the ideal for world peace with the League of Nations to enforce it.
Sentence 22: And Woodrow Wilson went to his grave trying to show the people of this country what would be the best for their welfare, and their interest.
Sentence 23: One of the great Democrats of all history.
Sentence 24: And then!--and then came "normalcy."
Sentence 25: Sick!--sick!
Sentence 26: a sick country, as the result of "normalcy."
Sentence 27: Twelve years of Republican special privilege rule!
Sentence 28: And then it became necessary to meet the greatest financial crisis this country had ever faced.
Sentence 29: We came forth with one of the greatest leaders of all time: Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Sentence 30: He met that depression.
Sentence 31: He conquered it.
Sentence 32: Then the world was faced with the greatest crisis in all history, and in 1939 Franklin Roosevelt met that crisis of the World War, and he met it in such a way that we have established a United Nations for the welfare of mankind, and for the welfare and the peace of the world.
Sentence 33: And that United Nations is going to meet the ideals of which Woodrow Wilson dreamed for the League of Nations.
Sentence 34: And we are going to make it work!
Sentence 35: What have the Republicans done in the last fifteen and a half years ?
Sentence 36: They have been obstructionists.
Sentence 37: They spent most of their time while I was in the Senate--and I was there for 10 years--in obstructing progressive legislation that was for the welfare of the common man, and throwing bricks and mud at the greatest President that ever sat in the White House.
Sentence 38: That has been their record.
Sentence 39: And they haven't changed a bit!
Sentence 40: They haven't changed a bit!
Sentence 41: They were against social security.
Sentence 42: They were against TVA.
Sentence 43: They were against wages and hours.
Sentence 44: They were against a farm program.
Sentence 45: I have often wondered what a so-called liberal Republican thinks.
Sentence 46: On election year they call him out and pat him on the back, send him around over the country to make speeches in support of a platform that he doesn't believe in--and just as soon as the election is over, they put him back in the doghouse, and he votes for the Democrats for the rest of the time.
Sentence 47: I just wonder how this Republican Party is going to the country on rent control, and on housing, and on prices ?
Sentence 48: Way back in 1945 I began making suggestions that we should release the price controls as production caught up with demand, and that in order to meet a situation which might develop into a price spiral that would cause inflation in this great Nation of ours, we should be very careful as to how we managed the release of those price controls.
Sentence 49: Well, my advice was not followed.
Sentence 50: And if you will examine the costs of your market basket today, and examine it in 1946 when the price controls were lifted, you will find out exactly what I mean when I say that the Democratic administration was looking after the welfare of the Nation as a whole, and looking after the economy of this country-as it still is right now!
Sentence 51: I have gone back time and again to this Republican Congress and pointed out to them the necessities for certain powers which the President should have.
Sentence 52: I don't know what they think of the President, but they are not willing to trust him with the necessary powers to meet the situations with which we are faced.
Sentence 53: We have done one thing, however, with this United Nations program.
Sentence 54: We have a united country behind that program.
Sentence 55: That is not a political issue.
Sentence 56: And I pray God that it never will become a political issue.
Sentence 57: Political issues ought to end at the water's edge, as I have said time and again.
Sentence 58: And I am trying to impress you Young Democrats with that very thing.
Sentence 59: The welfare of this country is at stake in the policy which we follow, and that policy is the foreign policy of the United States, and that foreign policy is centered in the United Nations in New York City, in the support of the United Nations and in the European recovery program-which means that the free nations of the world shall remain free nations of the world.
Sentence 60: And that is the foreign policy of the United States.
Sentence 61: The Republican platform of 1944 made the statement that they were for a strong Labor Department, and that they intended to see, if they got control of the Congress of the United States, that the Labor Department should have all the powers necessary for dealing with labor.
Sentence 62: Well now, what has happened ?
Sentence 63: They have emasculated the Labor Department.
Sentence 64: They have cut its appropriations to such a point that there might as well not be a Labor Department.
Sentence 65: Let me give you just two instances of how the Republicans have "strengthened" the Labor Department, and how they have taken care of labor, of whom they think so much in election year but think not very much of when it comes to legislation.
Sentence 66: They cut the appropriation of the United States Employment Service to a point where it can't properly function for the welfare of those veterans who are coming out of school and need jobs.
Sentence 67: And they have done something else that is almost ludicrous.
Sentence 68: They have taken the appropriation away from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Sentence 69: And you know why they did that?
Sentence 70: They got tired of seeing the facts as to what the prices are doing to the country.
Sentence 71: They are not satisfied to take the brakes off prices, but they tore the speedometer out of the car so they couldn't see how fast they were going.
Sentence 72: I wish I had time this evening--I am limited on this air broadcast--I wish I had time to tell you all the things that have taken place since this Republican Congress took control of the country, January 3d, 1946.
Sentence 73: I wish I could explain to you how they have bungled the budget in every particular.
Sentence 74: I wish I could explain to you how they have hampered the enforcement of the law, how they made a phony cut in the Treasury Department.
Sentence 75: They took $900 million out of the Treasury appropriation, which was to be used to pay back the taxes that were overpaid.
Sentence 76: You know what they had to do the other day?
Sentence 77: They had to make an appropriation of $850 million to meet that situation, and they have to make another $850 million to meet this phony tax cut they made the other day!
Sentence 78: I could go on all evening and tell you instance after instance of the great administrative ability of this Congress which has been trying to take over the powers of the President.
Sentence 79: So long as I am there, they are not going to get them!
Sentence 80: What does the country really want?
Sentence 81: Does the country want an administration under Republican control working for special interests, for higher prices, for greater profits, for fewer jobs, which will eventually end in boom and bust--the regular Republican program?
Sentence 82: Or does it want to go along with the Democratic administration, which is looking to the welfare of the country as a whole, which is willing to assume leadership where leadership is necessary, an administration which is willing to look out for the welfare of the common people, as the Democratic Party has always done?
Sentence 83: You Young Democrats, as your president here told you a few minutes ago, must see the light, and you must see that the people of this country see the light.
Sentence 84: Oh, I wish we had an Isaiah or a Martin Luther to lead us out of this moral despond into which we have fallen.
Sentence 85: I wish we could bring forth the political leaders from you Young Democrats who could preach the gospel of the welfare of the country first, and special interest never!
Sentence 86: That is what we need, my friends, and that is what we must have.
Sentence 87: That is what the Democratic Party stands for, and on November 2, 1948, the people of this country will have a chance to make that choice.
Sentence 88: It is up to you!
