Sentence 1: 1948 Address Charleston West Virginia

Mr. Chairman, Governor of West Virginia, distinguished guests:
Sentence 2: For the past 2 weeks I have been visiting the people of this country.
Sentence 3: I have met thousands of people and spoken to hundreds of thousands.
Sentence 4: I think I have been seen by at least 2½ million people in this country.
Sentence 5: I have a vital message to bring to the people of the United States, and tonight I want to bring that message to you.
Sentence 6: The heart of my message is this: The national election this fall will decide matters of grave importance to every man, woman, and child in the United States.
Sentence 7: It will affect the security of your jobs, your homes, and your future.
Sentence 8: You have a choice between the Democratic Party and the Republican Party.
Sentence 9: Within the memory of most of us here, a clear record has been written that shows how much difference that choice can make.
Sentence 10: The Republicans wrote part of their record from 1921 to 1933.
Sentence 11: They led the country to depression, poverty, and despair.
Sentence 12: It is easy to forget what the black days of the depression were like.
Sentence 13: Let us recall a few, just a few of the bitter facts.
Sentence 14: In 1932, after 12 years of Republican bungling, more than 12 million men and women were unemployed.
Sentence 15: In 1932 the average worker in manufacturing industries was making 45 cents an hour--if he was lucky enough to have a job.
Sentence 16: In coal mining, the most hazardous of all occupations, miners were making 52 cents an hour--if they were lucky enough to have jobs.
Sentence 17: The workingmen and women in this country could not do much to help themselves, because the strength of their unions had been broken by the reactionary labor policies of the Republican administration.
Sentence 18: The Republican bubble burst in 1929, and when it burst:
--There was no minimum wage to cushion the blow.
Sentence 19: --There was no unemployment compensation to carry the workingman's family along.
Sentence 20: --There was no work relief program to help people through the crisis.
Sentence 21: --But the party of privilege was ready to carry big business through the crisis.
Sentence 22: It created the Reconstruction Finance Corporation for that purpose.
Sentence 23: The banks, the railways, the insurance companies--they got relief, but not the American people.
Sentence 24: --For the unemployed, it was Hoovervilles and soup kitchens.
Sentence 25: Veterans were encouraged to go into business for themselves-selling apples.
Sentence 26: That is the Republican record.
Sentence 27: Most of us well remember it.
Sentence 28: The Democratic part of the record begins in 1933, when the Democratic Party began to build prosperity for business, labor, and agriculture.
Sentence 29: We wrote into law the right of the workingmen and women to organize in unions of their own choice, and to bargain collectively.
Sentence 30: We put a floor under wages.
Sentence 31: We outlawed child labor.
Sentence 32: We created a great insurance system to protect workingmen and women against the hazards of unemployment and old age.
Sentence 33: We wrote into law a system of price supports for farm products, so that the bottom would not drop from under the farmer's income the way it did in the 1920's.
Sentence 34: We put a curb on Wall Street speculation, and stopped the money changers from gambling with people's savings.
Sentence 35: With these reforms and many others, the Democratic Party brought the country to the greatest period of prosperity ever known in the history of the world.
Sentence 36: Things are far different now from what they were in 1932.
Sentence 37: The average farm income of the farmer in 1947 was $725 per person, nearly ten times as great.
Sentence 38: In 1932 it was $74 per person.
Sentence 39: The coal miner who got 52 cents an hour in 1932, gets $1.94 an hour in 1948.
Sentence 40: He deserves every cent of it, too; and I'm glad to see him get it.
Sentence 41: And business hasn't suffered too much under the New Deal!
Sentence 42: Corporations had a loss of $4 billion in 1932.
Sentence 43: But in 1947 they had a profit of $17 billion, after taxes.
Sentence 44: These same corporations--these same corporations now claim the Democrats are hostile to business.
Sentence 45: If I were in their shoes, I would want some more of that kind of hostility.
Sentence 46: Today, signs of prosperity are all over the country.
Sentence 47: I have been all over the country, and I know what I am talking about!
Sentence 48: Farm production is greater than it ever was.
Sentence 49: Industrial .production is greater than it every was.
Sentence 50: Everybody who wants a job can get one.
Sentence 51: That's the way America is today.
Sentence 52: The real question facing us in this election is whether or not we are going to keep it that way.
Sentence 53: For all this did not come about by accident.
Sentence 54: Some people would like to make you think it did.
Sentence 55: The leaders of the Republican Party would like you to believe that the country just drifted into the great depression, and that it just drifted out again into prosperity.
Sentence 56: They would like you to believe that the Democratic New Deal had nothing to do with recovery--and that the Republicans had nothing to do with the Hoover panic.
Sentence 57: That is not true and the people know it is not true.
Sentence 58: The country was driven into depression by the policies of a Republican administration and a Republican Congress that served the selfish interests of the rich and powerful business groups.
Sentence 59: The country was brought out of the depression by the intelligent foresight and planning of the Democratic Party--and above all by following the fundamental belief of the Democratic Party that the true road to prosperity begins with looking after the little fellow.
Sentence 60: The Republicans believe in taking care of big business first and letting the little fellow take care of himself.
Sentence 61: The Republicans would like you to forget these fundamental differences between the two parties.
Sentence 62: But during the past 2 years we have been given a sharp warning that these differences still exist, and these differences are wide and deep.
Sentence 63: That has been made completely clear by the record of this Republican "do-nothing" 80th Congress.
Sentence 64: No matter what the Republicans do or say, the Republicans cannot escape responsibility for that black record.
Sentence 65: I know, of course, that there are many fine people throughout the United States, who from habit or choice are members of the Republican Party.
Sentence 66: To them I say that the national leadership of their party has failed them miserably.
Sentence 67: I know, too, that among the Republicans of the 80th Congress there were a few liberal men who joined the battle against special privilege.
Sentence 68: You can pick these men out by their votes.
Sentence 69: They voted with the Democrats in the Congress more often than they did with their own Republican leadership.
Sentence 70: When these men went to their party caucuses they must have felt very lonesome.
Sentence 71: The record of the 80th Congress was made by the forces that dominate the Republican Party.
Sentence 72: I thank God that the men who held positions of leadership in dealing with foreign affairs were of a character which made it possible for us to work together in carrying out our foreign policy on a bipartisan basis.
Sentence 73: But on domestic issues it was a different matter.
Sentence 74: The Republican leadership started out to follow the same policies that nearly wrecked the country under Harding, Coolidge, and Hoover.
Sentence 75: Some people have accused me of failing to cooperate with the Republican leadership in carrying out those policies.
Sentence 76: Now, I must confess to you that I am going to plead guilty to that charge.
Sentence 77: Of course, I did not cooperate in carrying out policies that I knew would bring disaster on the American people.
Sentence 78: But I will tell you how you can get some cooperation in carrying out those policies-if that's what you want.
Sentence 79: I will tell you how you can achieve unity in a headlong dash toward another depression.
Sentence 80: Just elect a Republican President to go along with a Republican Congress.
Sentence 81: Just elect a man who said--and I quote: "I am proud of the record of my party and of the 80th Congress."
Just elect a man who said: "The 80th Congress delivered as no other Congress ever did for the future of our country."
Sentence 82: Apparently he will be glad to help deliver a lot more of the same kind of blows you got from the 80th Congress.
Sentence 83: But bigger blows-and faster and more of them.
Sentence 84: What did this Republican Congress deliver for the future of the country ?
Sentence 85: For one thing, it delivered a body blow at labor in the form of the Taft-Hartley Act.
Sentence 86: The fundamental purpose of the Taft-Hartley Act is to weaken organized labor.
Sentence 87: Its supporters want management to have the upper hand in collective bargaining.
Sentence 88: Do you know why?
Sentence 89: They want management to have the upper hand so that wages can be driven down.
Sentence 90: What else did the Republican Congress deliver for the future of our country?
Sentence 91: It delivered a body blow at nearly a million workers by taking away their social security rights.
Sentence 92: It delivered a body blow at millions of our veterans by refusing to provide a decent housing program.
Sentence 93: It delivered a blow at every family in the Nation by failing to act on high prices.
Sentence 94: What else did the Republican Congress deliver for the future of our country?
Sentence 95: It delivered a whole long list of blows at every foundation of our present prosperity and at our hopes for progress in the future.
Sentence 96: I can't cover them all tonight, but I will tell you about just one more.
Sentence 97: That is the rich man's tax relief bill.
Sentence 98: The Republican Congress passed a tax bill that reduced the revenues of the Government by more than $5 billion.
Sentence 99: That Congress passed it three times and I vetoed it every time.
Sentence 100: But on the third try, they passed it over my veto.
Sentence 101: I believed that the safety of our national finances required that we make large payments on the public debt in times of prosperity.
Sentence 102: I still think so.
Sentence 103: But the Republican rich man's tax relief bill has brought us face to face with the prospect of going into the red again.
Sentence 104: I believed that when the wartime taxes were reduced, the poor man should be relieved first and most.
Sentence 105: I still think so.
Sentence 106: But the Republican tax bill doesn't work that way.
Sentence 107: I warned that the tax reduction bill would add to the inflationary pressures and make prices go even higher.
Sentence 108: And it did.
Sentence 109: For most of you, the tax bill hasn't helped a bit.
Sentence 110: If you make $60 a week, your taxes were reduced about $1.50 a week.
Sentence 111: But since May, when that $1.50 began to show up in your pay envelope, prices have gone up so much that the $1.50 is already wiped out.
Sentence 112: The rich man fared much better under the tax bill.
Sentence 113: A married couple with an income of $100,000 a year got a tax cut of $16,725 a year--$16,725 a year!
Sentence 114: That's about $12,000 more than my net salary as President of the United States.
Sentence 115: Of course, prices haven't gone up for them any more than they have for you.
Sentence 116: So I would say that they came out pretty well.
Sentence 117: Is it any wonder that we call this a rich man's tax relief bill?
Sentence 118: That's typical of the way the Republican 80th Congress delivered for the future of the country.
Sentence 119: Some time later, I am going to elaborate on just exactly what they did with the budget this year.
Sentence 120: And it fits in with this rich man's tax relief bill.
Sentence 121: It's outrageous what they did to the country on that.
Sentence 122: That Congress delivered for the interests that had their lobbyists swarming all over the Capital.
Sentence 123: It delivered for special privilege groups that put up the big money at election time.
Sentence 124: They are doing that right now in this election.
Sentence 125: That same bunch of lobbyists and people whom they represent are paying for the Republican campaign right this minute.
Sentence 126: Now, they passed a great many bills, which I vetoed.
Sentence 127: There is only one President who has a greater veto record than I have, in the short time that I have been President, and that is Grover Cleveland; and I am proud of that veto record, because I was standing there working for the people, when I was signing those vetoes.
Sentence 128: But they passed a great many--not a great many, but several--among them this tax relief bill and the Taft-Hartley bill.
Sentence 129: They passed those bills over my veto.
Sentence 130: But when a bill becomes the law of the land, the President of the United States has sworn to enforce the law, and as President of the United States, I have lived up to that oath which I took to support the Constitution and the laws of the United States.
Sentence 131: But if you want these bad things remedied, you had better give me a Congress for the next 4 years that is working for the people and not for the special interests.
Sentence 132: Now, if you want unity and harmony and sweetness and light in getting more deliveries of the kind I have been describing, just shut your eyes and vote Republican.
Sentence 133: But if you want something delivered for labor, if you want something delivered for the farmers, and if you want something delivered for the small businessmen, and for the white-collar worker--there is just one way you can make your vote count.
Sentence 134: Vote the Democratic ticket.
Sentence 135: Today, the Democratic Party is the party of the American people.
Sentence 136: It was the party of the people under Jefferson and Jackson.
Sentence 137: It was the party of the people under Wilson and Franklin Roosevelt.
Sentence 138: Today, we of the Democratic Party express the will of the American people to move forward, under liberty, yielding neither to communism nor to reaction.
Sentence 139: Today, the Democratic Party stands before the country a living force for peace and freedom.
Sentence 140: Today, we are rallying our forces for the greatest struggle in our history.
Sentence 141: In that struggle, I ask your support.
Sentence 142: Just give us the votes on election day, and we will do the job.
