Sentence 1: 1948 Rear Platform Remarks Kansas
Sentence 2: [1.]
Sentence 3: DODGE CITY, KANSAS (7:30 a.m.) .
Sentence 4: It looks as if Dodge City really wanted to see what their President looked like.
Sentence 5: I used to come over here to Dodge City on road matters for the National Old Trails Association.
Sentence 6: I was the director of that organization, and I have been through here on numerous occasions on work for that organization.
Sentence 7: Those were the days when we didn't have the roads we have now, and when it used to take the Santa Fe Railroad a little longer to go from Kansas City than it does now.
Sentence 8: I am most happy that you are willing to give me this most cordial welcome this morning.
Sentence 9: I think you have a right to see your President, and your President has a right to see you.
Sentence 10: You have a right to know exactly what I have been trying to tell you in the last few weeks, and I think I have succeeded pretty well.
Sentence 11: I have seen, I imagine, about 2 1/2 millions of people.
Sentence 12: I have talked to a great many people, and a great many people have talked to me, and I think I have found out what the country is thinking about.
Sentence 13: I think I have definitely fixed the issues which are before the country now.
Sentence 14: It is merely the fact: are the special privilege boys going to run the country, or are the people going to run it?
Sentence 15: It is up to you to decide if you want special privilege to run it.
Sentence 16: Then you will know what to do.
Sentence 17: If you don't want the special privilege boys to run this country, then it is still up to you to decide what you want to do.
Sentence 18: I merely wanted to lay before you the facts as they are.
Sentence 19: It is almost impossible to get definitely the facts before the people, for the simple reason that there are certain people in the newspaper business and certain people in the radio business who have a distorted view of what the people ought to know and ought to think.
Sentence 20: I know in this part of the world that you think for yourselves.
Sentence 21: I hope you will just continue to do that, and I won't have anything to worry about.
Sentence 22: It has been a very great pleasure to see you all this morning.
Sentence 23: I hope when the issues are really drawn, and I am not against the field, I can come out here on a political tour and tell you just exactly what the facts are.
Sentence 24: [2.] HUTCHINSON, KANSAS (9:35 a.m.)
Sentence 25: It certainly is a pleasure, and I appreciate this very much.
Sentence 26: We had not expected to stop at Hutchinson, but we heard that there were some people who wanted to see their President, so we decided to stop, and I am glad you have had that chance, if that is what you wanted.
Sentence 27: I have been touring the country to let people know what I look like and what I stand for.
Sentence 28: I think they have pretty well found out.
Sentence 29: I think the issues are pretty well drawn, and I think you and your judgment will have a chance to make a proper decision when the time comes.
Sentence 30: I hope that sometime later I will have the opportunity to come back this way on a political tour, when I can really talk to you on the issues and tell you what's going on.
Sentence 31: It certainly is heart-warming to see so many shining faces out this morning, when this wasn't even a scheduled stop.
Sentence 32: I wonder what it would have been if it had been a scheduled stop?
Sentence 33: [3.] NEWTON, KANSAS (10:20 a.m.)
Sentence 34: Well, it certainly is a pleasure to see you this morning.
Sentence 35: It looks like the whole city is here.
Sentence 36: I like Newton, Kans.
Sentence 37: I have been here many a time--on business, on pleasure, and for a lot of other reasons too numerous to mention.
Sentence 38: I have had a most pleasant trip since I left Washington.
Sentence 39: I stopped in Omaha, if you remember, and discussed the farm situation.
Sentence 40: You are interested here in farm production and in the production underground, to a great extent.
Sentence 41: I passed by an oil field just a little while ago, just west of here.
Sentence 42: It was the farm production, and the production of oil and minerals which made it possible for this country to win the war in as short a time as it did.
Sentence 43: The farmers are to be most highly complimented on the contribution that they made to the war effort, and the contribution that they are making to the peace effort now.
Sentence 44: Were it not for the fact that we have had a large surplus of foodstuffs, a great many millions of people would have starved to death.
Sentence 45: The ability of the farmers to produce now is, I think to some extent, and to a great extent, due to the proper legislation under which the farmers have been working for the last 12 or 14 years.
Sentence 46: I don't know whether your memory is good or not, but back in 1932 the farm income was $4,700 million.
Sentence 47: Last year it was $30 billion; and the farmers had $23 billion on deposit in the banks.
Sentence 48: In 1932 they didn't have any money in the bank, in fact they didn't have very much of anything except mortgages which were coming due so fast we couldn't pay them off.
Sentence 49: I am happy about that situation, and I want to see that situation continue.
Sentence 50: Since I made my Omaha speech, the House has reported out the farm bill.
Sentence 51: I don't know what the Senate will do to it.
Sentence 52: I hope the Senate will pass it, because the things which create the incentive to get the farmers to do what they have done over the last 7 years will expire at the end of this year, if this Congress does not act on the farm bill.
Sentence 53: I am hoping that they will act, because the present farm bill as reported out by the House is a good bill.
Sentence 54: I want to say to you right here that there are a great many liberal Congressmen and Senators who are interested in the welfare of the people, but they are not with the majority in the Congress now.
Sentence 55: That is the thing I want to drive home.
Sentence 56: You elected that Congress--33 1/3 percent of you did.
Sentence 57: Only 33 1/3 percent of the people voted in 1946, and that is the reason we got the sort of Congress we did.
Sentence 58: It is a minority Congress with a majority against the people.
Sentence 59: That we can't stand!
Sentence 60: You have got to take that under consideration in the coming campaign, and when I come back to Kansas in the next campaign, I will make you a political speech along the lines that you can understand.
Sentence 61: I made this tour while the Congress was in session, hoping that the Congress would take some action on needed legislation, when the people were awake to the facts of what was really happening back there.
Sentence 62: And I made the tour purposely before the Congress adjourned, so they would have a chance to act.
Sentence 63: If they will act, I will be just as happy as anybody in the United States, and that is the reason I am making this nonpolitical tour.
Sentence 64: I am here to get the people aroused as to what the Congress ought to do, and I think the Congress ought to be aroused.
Sentence 65: That is the reason for the trip.
Sentence 66: I certainly have had a reception.
Sentence 67: I never saw so many people in my life.
Sentence 68: I think I have faced more than 20 million people, and I have talked to a lot of people, and a lot of people have talked to me.
Sentence 69: And that was the purpose of the trip.
Sentence 70: You know, the President is rather completely surrounded in Washington.
Sentence 71: It has to be that way.
Sentence 72: About the only chance I have to see anybody are the people who come in to call on me for business purposes, and nearly every one of them has an axe to grind, and I have to have my guard up all the time.
Sentence 73: On this trip, I have been able to look the people of the United States in the face, and they have been able to see me, and they have been able to visit with me, maybe, to make up their own minds as to what sort of fellow they think I may be.
Sentence 74: I hope that they will think the right way.
Sentence 75: It has been a pleasure to make this trip.
Sentence 76: It has been a pleasure to discuss the things that this country faces.
Sentence 77: This country is the greatest Nation in the world now.
Sentence 78: And it is necessary for this country to assume the leadership that I think God Almighty intended the country to assume in 1920.
Sentence 79: We have assumed that leadership, and we have assumed it on a bipartisan basis.
Sentence 80: Thank God the foreign policy of the United States has not gotten into this brawl, because it shouldn't.
Sentence 81: All our domestic difficulties are up for discussion, and we have a right to discuss them, and I have a right to discuss them, and so has anybody a right to discuss them as he wants to.
Sentence 82: But the foreign policy of the United States must be for the whole world because that means peace in the world if it is carried out.
Sentence 83: And we are carrying it out.
Sentence 84: I hope that when that foreign policy is successfully implemented and the United Nations becomes the working organization that it is now becoming, we will be safe from all world wars.
Sentence 85: I have been through two of them, and never want to see another one, and I don't think anybody else does, if he is in his right mind.
Sentence 86: Thank you very much for coming out this morning.
Sentence 87: It certainly is a pleasure to see you.
Sentence 88: I wish I could talk to each one of you individually.
Sentence 89: I wish my arm was long enough to reach out and shake hands with all of you, but I can't do it.
Sentence 90: [4.]
Sentence 91: EMPORIA, KANSAS 12:05 p.m.)
Sentence 92: I am certainly glad to see the citizens of Emporia turn out this way.
Sentence 93: I have a very agreeable surprise for you.
Sentence 94: You know, Congress sometimes does things as it ought to do.
Sentence 95: There are a lot of good liberal people in the Congress, although they are not in the majority now.
Sentence 96: I received a resolution last night, at Albuquerque, in the pouch which comes to me daily from Washington, authorizing a 3-cent stamp honoring William Allen White.
Sentence 97: I am going to sign that resolution right here, so that you can see me do it.
Sentence 98: [The President read aloud the resolution.]
Sentence 99: And when I sign it, it will be the law.
Sentence 100: [The President signed it.]
Sentence 101: That does it!
Sentence 102: William Allen White was one of the country's great men.
Sentence 103: He was a great editor, he was a humanitarian, and he always worked for the right, in my opinion.
Sentence 104: I always thought he was on the side of the right.
Sentence 105: And he has a son who is following in his footsteps, and who is doing a very magnificent job in the newspaper field.
Sentence 106: Both of those gentlemen were on the liberal side.
Sentence 107: They worked for the people all the time; and they continue to work for the people.
Sentence 108: William Allen White's spirit goes marching on, and his son always was on the side of what I think is right.
Sentence 109: That is what I came out here to tell you people, that there are no issues but one, and that is the issue whether special privilege shall run the country, or whether the people shall run the country.
Sentence 110: You are going to have a chance to make that decision this fall, and when I go out on my political tour, I am going to come back and tell you just exactly what the issues are.
Sentence 111: I see one of my very old friends here in the audience, Bill Young.
Sentence 112: He used to be Mayor of Council Grove, Kans., and a member of the National Old Trails Association.
Sentence 113: I have been from one end of Kansas to the other with Bill Young, and other members of that Association.
Sentence 114: I came here to Emporia in 1943--or 1944--I believe it was in the fall of 1943, when we were passing a resolution which was to authorize the establishment of the United Nations.
Sentence 115: That was a resolution called B
2
H
2
1
in the Senate and House of Representatives.
Sentence 116: It came out so that a call for the United Nations was made on April 25, 1945.
Sentence 117: And that was the first decision I had to make after I was sworn in as President, as to whether that United Nations conference would be carried on in San Francisco on the 25th of April.
Sentence 118: 1
Ball-Burton-Hatch-Hill Resolution, introduced into the Senate in 1943.
Sentence 119: I made that decision.
Sentence 120: The conference reached a conclusion, and the document of the Charter of the United Nations was signed by 51 nations.
Sentence 121: I was present when that document was signed in San Francisco in 1945.
Sentence 122: And at the stadium of the University of California, on the 12th of June, I reiterated the foreign policy of the United States, which is based on a working United Nations.
Sentence 123: And the United Nations is working.
Sentence 124: I said then that I hoped the Charter of the United Nations would become the constitution of the world, just as the Constitution of the United States is the Constitution of the 48 States.
Sentence 125: And I think it will.
Sentence 126: I am sure it will.
Sentence 127: It must.
Sentence 128: Because that means peace in the world, and that is what we all want.
Sentence 129: We are all anxious for peace, and we will get peace in the world, if the people of the United States back up their bipartisan foreign policy.
Sentence 130: That is the most important thing that we have facing us now.
Sentence 131: All these domestic issues can be fought out on the basis of their merits.
Sentence 132: The foreign policy of the United States must be the policy of the whole United States, in order to make it effective.
Sentence 133: That is what we have been working for ever since I came here to Emporia with Congressman Judd; and we discussed at that time just what we might be faced with today.
Sentence 134: In order to get peace now, we must keep that foreign policy out of the political scramble which will take place in this Presidential year.
Sentence 135: I know we can do that.
Sentence 136: The leaders in the Senate who pass on treaties which affect foreign relations, have been working in complete harmony with the President and the Secretary of State, and we are going to continue to do that so far as foreign affairs are concerned.
Sentence 137: But that doesn't go for local affairs--that doesn't go for local affairs.
Sentence 138: We have a right in this country to say what we please, and when we please, provided we can back it up.
Sentence 139: And I have been out trying to tell the people just exactly what the facts are as I see them.
Sentence 140: I suppose I have talked to 2 1/2 million people-on this trip, and a lot of people have talked to me.
Sentence 141: They have seen me, and they understand what I want to do; and now it is going to be up to the people themselves to decide whether the policies of the President are in their interest, or whether the policies of this special privilege majority in the Congress are in their interest.
Sentence 142: That is up to you.
