Sentence 1: 1948 Rear Platform Remarks Pennsylvania
Sentence 2: [1.]
Sentence 3: LOCK HAVEN, PENNSYLVANIA 10:25 p.m.)
Thank you, Senator, I appreciate that very much.
Sentence 4: We really didn't have a scheduled stop here, but I am so happy to see so many people turn out and have a chance to see what the President looks like and to hear something about what he believes in.
Sentence 5: You know, there has been so much publicity about your President not knowing where he is going or what he is doing or anything of the kind that people are surprised when they find that he does know where he is going, and he knows what he is doing.
Sentence 6: This campaign has been a campaign of the people against special interests.
Sentence 7: And when you go to the polls to vote on November 2d, just bear in mind that you are voting for yourselves.
Sentence 8: If you vote in your own interest, you can't do but one thing, and that is vote the Democratic ticket straight.
Sentence 9: I have made it perfectly plain from one end of the country to the other, that the Republicans conclusively showed what they believed in, when the 80th Congress met on the 3d day of January in 1947.
Sentence 10: That Congress was not one bit different from the ancient idea that the Republicans have always had, that special interest comes first.
Sentence 11: Voice: The worst one's right here!
Sentence 12: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 13: You are just as right as you can be, and that goes from the grassroots up.
Sentence 14: They haven't changed their position a bit.
Sentence 15: Now, just do one thing in your own interest.
Sentence 16: When election day comes, don't do like you did in 1946.
Sentence 17: You know, two-thirds of you stayed at home in 1946, and one-third of the people of this country elected that good-for-nothing, "do-nothing" 80th Congress.
Sentence 18: Those of you who stayed at home got just what you deserved.
Sentence 19: Now don't do that this time.
Sentence 20: Go out and vote your sentiments.
Sentence 21: Vote in your own interest.
Sentence 22: Then I won't have to be troubled with the housing shortage, I win still live in the White House for another 4 years.
Sentence 23: I am sorry Margaret and Mrs. Truman are not with me today.
Sentence 24: But they had to stay at home and get ready for the final windup of this tour next week.
Sentence 25: You see, tomorrow afternoon I will leave Washington again and start for Chicago and Cleveland, and Boston and New York City, and Brooklyn and St. Louis, Mo., and finally wind up at home on November 1st, in Independence.
Sentence 26: Kansas City is a suburb of Independence.
Sentence 27: Then, on the next day, everybody will vote, I hope, and then on the 3d of November we will know what the answer is.
Sentence 28: And I think I know what it's going to be.
