Sentence 1: 1948 Address Buffalo

Mr. Chairman:
Sentence 2: In less than a month, you will have the responsibility of choosing a government for the next 4 years, 1949 to 1953.
Sentence 3: These are likely to be critical years in American history, and in world history.
Sentence 4: They are years which are likely to hold the answer to two great questions in the hearts of most of us today.
Sentence 5: These questions I can briefly sum up as: (1) war or peace?
Sentence 6: (2) hard times or prosperity?
Sentence 7: Now, as to the first question, war or peace.
Sentence 8: I know that every right-thinking American wants peace.
Sentence 9: I believe that our prayers will be answered and that we will have peace.
Sentence 10: No one wants peace in the world more than I do.
Sentence 11: I have said time and again that I would rather have peace in the world than to be President of the United States.
Sentence 12: Of course, present world conditions are of grave concern to all of us.
Sentence 13: Because of these conditions, I have found it necessary to cancel visits I had planned to make to a number of cities tomorrow.
Sentence 14: I must return to Washington to meet with Secretary of State Marshall, who is flying back from Paris to confer with me.
Sentence 15: I shall discuss with Secretary Marshall means for working out constructive and peaceful solutions to our problems abroad, within the framework of our basic American principles, and within the framework of the United Nations.
Sentence 16: I am sorry to disappoint so many of my friends whom I had expected to see tomorrow.
Sentence 17: But I know that they will forgive me.
Sentence 18: Now, tonight I am going to talk to you about the second great question I mentioned-hard times or prosperity.
Sentence 19: The election in November clearly presents that question to the people of the United States.
Sentence 20: Of course, there is no open argument on this question.
Sentence 21: Nobody wants hard times.
Sentence 22: Everybody wants prosperity.
Sentence 23: The Republicans are quite sincere in saying that they want prosperity just as much as the Democrats.
Sentence 24: I believe they do.
Sentence 25: Who doesn't?
Sentence 26: But the leaders who now control the Republican Party want prosperity for special privilege groups first, and for other people, if they can get it.
Sentence 27: They want high profits for their campaign contributors, and high prices for special interest lobbies.
Sentence 28: In the mad scramble to get that selfish kind of prosperity, they forget about the rest of the country.
Sentence 29: They forget about the needs of the farmer, and labor, and small business.
Sentence 30: They forget about housewives struggling with their budgets, and families using up their savings to meet the high cost of living.
Sentence 31: They forget about the prosperity of the consumers and wage earners of this country.
Sentence 32: Then, of course, their own prosperity goes to smash under those circumstances, and they are all in depression together.
Sentence 33: Real prosperity is based on justice.
Sentence 34: Real prosperity depends on fair treatment for all groups of our society.
Sentence 35: That's a rule as old as the Bible.
Sentence 36: That's what the Bible means when it says, and I quote: "We are....every one members, one of another."
Sentence 37: That is the very thing the economists have found out about our economy, after 50 years of studying booms and depressions.
Sentence 38: We judge people and parties by what they do, not by what they say.
Sentence 39: We judge the Democratic Party by its record of achievement over the last 16 years.
Sentence 40: We judge the Republican Party by its record of the last 2 years in the Congress where it has had absolute control of the legislative branch of the Government, and complete responsibility for that branch.
Sentence 41: If we look at that record, we can see that the Republican leadership has changed very little in its policies since the days of Hoover.
Sentence 42: And we can see that the Republican Party is following the same fatal course--privileges for the few, neglect of the many--that led us into the disaster of 1929.
Sentence 43: I know that this kind of talk is very painful to Republican leaders.
Sentence 44: I can't help that.
Sentence 45: The Republicans say I ought not to talk about the past.
Sentence 46: They would like us to forget the period from 1929 to 1932.
Sentence 47: They would like to forget it themselves, I am sure.
Sentence 48: Let me assure you that when I talk about the Republican past, I do so with regret.
Sentence 49: I wish with all my heart that the Republican Party no longer had anything in common with the party that produced the depression of the 1930's.
Sentence 50: But it is important for the people of this country to recognize that time has not changed the fundamental outlook of the Republican Party since it was last in power.
Sentence 51: The leopard has not changed his spots; he has merely hired some public relations experts.
Sentence 52: They have taught him to wear sheep's clothing, and to purr sweet nothings about unity in a soothing voice.
Sentence 53: But it's the same old leopard.
Sentence 54: The Republican strategy in this campaign is increasingly clear.
Sentence 55: The Republicans have carefully appraised their assets and liabilities and have reached the conclusion that they have one main liability and one main asset.
Sentence 56: The liability is the issues in this campaign.
Sentence 57: They have concluded that their record is so bad on the important issues of the day, that they can't even discuss them.
Sentence 58: The problems that affect the welfare of every person in this country are completely ignored by the Republican orators.
Sentence 59: Now the main asset of the Republicans is the tremendous financial support they are receiving.
Sentence 60: Much of it is being utilized to conduct a widespread propaganda campaign designed to fool you into believing that the result of this coming election is a foregone conclusion.
Sentence 61: How wrong they are!
Sentence 62: I believe that the American people will not be fooled by this insidious propaganda.
Sentence 63: I believe that the American people--and not the propagandists for special interests-will decide in whose hands their government will be placed.
Sentence 64: Now let us look at some of the issues in this campaign.
Sentence 65: I do not claim that all Democrats are perfect or that all Democratic Congressmen are wise.
Sentence 66: But in general, most Democrats vote for the people, and most Republicans vote for special interests.
Sentence 67: Just take, as an example, my proposals for the control of high prices.
Sentence 68: In 1947, in the Senate, 90 percent of the Democrats voted for these proposals, and 10 percent of the Democrats against them; but only 5 percent of the Republicans voted for them, and 95 percent of the Republicans voted against those proposals.
Sentence 69: In 1948, 81 percent of the Democrats voted for these proposals to hold prices down, and 98 percent of the Republicans voted against them.
Sentence 70: I want you to realize that when I speak of the actions of the Republican Both Congress, I am speaking of actions which represent the prevailing views of those who control the Republican Party.
Sentence 71: That Congress was merely a symbol and instrument of Republican Party policy.
Sentence 72: Lately there has been talk by Republicans that while the 80th Congress might have been pretty bad--and I say it is more than pretty bad--that has nothing to do with the Republican leaders.
Sentence 73: They are attempting to build up the illusion that a Republican Congress and the Republican candidate for President do not stand for the same policies.
Sentence 74: Can you beat that?
Sentence 75: Well, the Republican candidate has now dispelled that illusion.
Sentence 76: He has indorsed the Both Congress.
Sentence 77: He said, and I quote: "The 80th Congress delivered as no other Congress ever did for the future of the country."
Sentence 78: How they delivered !
Sentence 79: Make no mistake: When we talk of the failures of the 80th Congress, we are talking of the policies of the Republican candidates, as well as most of the Republican Congressmen and Senators.
Sentence 80: They are tarred with the same brush--that brush that big business uses to brush off the needs and the claims of the people.
Sentence 81: Now the point I want to drive home to you and to all the people of the United States is this: Your prosperity is endangered by the Republican policies.
Sentence 82: I want you to look at the facts, think about them, and be guided by them.
Sentence 83: And I am not asking you to vote for the Democratic Party, just because during the past 16 years, Democratic policies turned hard times into good times.
Sentence 84: What I want you to do is to look at the present Democratic policies, as they affect you and your family in the years ahead.
Sentence 85: Let's take a specific example.
Sentence 86: Let's take the struggle to get sufficient housing in this country.
Sentence 87: This year, in the United States of America, 5 million families are living in slums and fire traps.
Sentence 88: Another 4 million families are living in houses that will soon become slums unless something is done to prevent it.
Sentence 89: Three million families, including many families of war veterans, are living doubled up with other families.
Sentence 90: And things are getting worse.
Sentence 91: There are twice as many couples getting married each year as there are homes being built.
Sentence 92: This housing situation is intolerable and inexcusable.
Sentence 93: A great, rich country like ours can afford decent homes for its citizens.
Sentence 94: We must do three things: We must build more houses, we must build homes that people--particularly young people--can afford, and we must clear out and rebuild the slums.
Sentence 95: Houses are being built--by private enterprise, as they should be.
Sentence 96: But they aren't being built in sufficient numbers, or at low enough prices.
Sentence 97: And without Government help, they can't be.
Sentence 98: Without Government help, cities are not financially able to wipe out their slums.
Sentence 99: So the Government has a big and important role to play in housing, not in conflict or competition with private enterprise, but supplementing it.
Sentence 100: In my postwar message to the Congress, I urged early action by the Congress to enact a real housing program to meet these needs.
Sentence 101: That was in September 1945--3 years ago.
Sentence 102: My Message on the State of the Union, September 26, with 21 points in it, had one on housing.
Sentence 103: A splendid bill for this purpose was introduced.
Sentence 104: It was sponsored by two Democratic Senators and one Republican.
Sentence 105: One of the Democrats was your own fighting, great liberal--Bob Wagner.
Sentence 106: The other Democratic Senator was Senator Ellender of Louisiana, and the Republican was Senator Taft of Ohio.
Sentence 107: I was hopeful that we could start helping our people with their housing problems.
Sentence 108: But I did not reckon with the influence of the real estate lobby.
Sentence 109: The real estate people have one of the most powerful, best organized, and most brazen lobbies in Washington.
Sentence 110: And the Republican Party has proved to be its faithful servant.
Sentence 111: The Wagner-Ellender-Taft bill passed the Senate in 1946, but was blocked by the Republican members of a House committee in the House of Representatives.
Sentence 112: In 1947, we had the Republican 80th Congress--and you got that by staying at home and not doing your duty--and the housing bill was introduced again.
Sentence 113: The Republican leadership in the Senate stalled for time.
Sentence 114: Do you know what they did?
Sentence 115: They set up a joint committee to find out if there was a housing shortage.
Sentence 116: I sent a message to Congress asking them please to hurry up and do something.
Sentence 117: Housing conditions were getting worse and worse, and are getting worse and worse.
Sentence 118: Thereupon, the Senate passed the bill for a second time and it went to the House.
Sentence 119: There were enough favorable votes in the House to pass it, if it ever came to a vote.
Sentence 120: So the Republican leadership decided to keep it from coming to a vote.
Sentence 121: They pulled every trick in the parliamentary book, and some that had never been heard of before; and they were successful in keeping that housing bill from passing.
Sentence 122: It was a most shameful performance.
Sentence 123: The Democrats tried again and again, in both the Senate and House, to get that bill through.
Sentence 124: But they were blocked at every turn by the Republicans.
Sentence 125: And the sad truth is that the Republican leadership in the Congress murdered that housing bill.
Sentence 126: Congress adjourned shortly after that, and the Republicans went to their convention in Philadelphia, and they drafted a platform plank on housing.
Sentence 127: And what do you think that plank said?
Sentence 128: Don't be surprised now.
Sentence 129: It announced the stern determination of the Republican Party to provide Federal housing aid for local slum clearance and low-rent housing programs--the very provisions they have been fighting against so hard for 3 years.
Sentence 130: Beat that, if you can!
Sentence 131: That wasn't all the tommyrot they put in that platform, they put a lot of things in that platform that they had been fighting me on ever since I came to the presidency.
Sentence 132: And then I got a glimmer of hope--not much, but a little.
Sentence 133: I thought they really wouldn't dare go back on their own platform--at least, not until the ink was dry on it--and that they might now pass the legislation they promised to the people.
Sentence 134: And I called them into special session, you remember, when I made that acceptance speech at the Democratic National Convention.
Sentence 135: Well, you remember what happened.
Sentence 136: I called the Congress back into special session.
Sentence 137: I pointed out that unless it acted on housing, the next Congress would have to begin all over again, and there would be another year's delay.
Sentence 138: I asked the Congress again to pass the Taft-Ellender-Wagner bill.
Sentence 139: You see, they turned it around.
Sentence 140: In the beginning it was the Wagner-Ellender-Taft bill, and they turned it around and called it the Taft-Ellender-Wagner bill.
Sentence 141: Were the Republicans grateful for the chance to prove they meant what they said ?
Sentence 142: Not a bit!
Sentence 143: They accused me of playing politics.
Sentence 144: Now, we come to the end of this sorry story of Republican trickery.
Sentence 145: Senator Taft himself--one of the sponsors of the bill--turned against it, and asked the Senate to kill it--to kill his own bill.
Sentence 146: Also very interesting is the fact that one of your Senators from New York--who is, close to the Republican candidate for President--had the chance to take a position or the housing bill.
Sentence 147: And Senator Ives voted against the bill.
Sentence 148: So the Senate killed the Taft-Ellender Wagner bill, and the Congress passed a bill, which does nothing about low-cost public housing, nothing about slum clearance, nothing about rural housing--nothing, in short, that they said they would do for the people in their platform.
Sentence 149: One of the aims of my administration has been to give all our people a chance to have decent housing.
Sentence 150: Our major effort has been to enlarge the effective field of private enterprise and to give public support only to housing for those low-income families that private enterprise cannot serve.
Sentence 151: The Republican Congress flatly refused to aid those low-income families.
Sentence 152: What was the result of this great Republican runaround ?
Sentence 153: The real estate lobby won.
Sentence 154: And the people of the United States lost-lost homes they could have had--lost years of health and happiness in decent surroundings that might have been theirs.
Sentence 155: I have gone into this story at length because it shows the way in which the Republican Party has thwarted the will of the people.
Sentence 156: Republican policies are depriving millions of families of the housing they need.
Sentence 157: Republican policies are keeping up prices of much of the food you eat, and the clothing you buy.
Sentence 158: And worst of all, these Republican policies, by permitting inflation to continue without proper curbs, are threatening the very foundations of our prosperity.
Sentence 159: They are not only injuring American living standards by high prices--they are also pushing the country into the terrible risk of another crash and another depression.
Sentence 160: That is why I must say to you that a Republican victory in November would be a victory for a policy that makes for hard times.
Sentence 161: The Democratic Party is not perfect, but its leadership, its policies, and the great majority of the Democratic Members of Congress stand squarely behind a policy aimed to preserve the prosperity of the people.
Sentence 162: That, my friends, is the major issue in this campaign.
Sentence 163: That is why I feel justified tonight in asking you to cast your votes, on election day, for a Democratic administration that has faith in the people, and that plays fair with the people.
Sentence 164: And we shall need a Democratic Congress this time.
Sentence 165: We need a Democratic Congress to protect your pocketbooks, your homes, your futures, and the happiness of your children.
Sentence 166: Ever since I started out in this campaign, I have urged the people to exercise their rights in the Government.
Sentence 167: The Government is yours, if you are willing to accept the responsibility, and when you accept that responsibility, you will go to the polls on election day and vote your sentiments.
Sentence 168: I have been urging everybody in these United States to be sure to go to the polls on November 2d, and to vote for themselves, vote for their own interests, vote for the people's interest.
Sentence 169: And when you do that, you can't do but one thing, and that is to vote the Democratic ticket straight.
Sentence 170: A Democratic administration is what this country needs--what we all need.
Sentence 171: And it's very easy to get.
Sentence 172: All we have to do is to go to the polls and get it--if you do your duty.
Sentence 173: I am urging you with everything I have now--don't shirk your duty this time, as you did in 1946.
Sentence 174: You will get something worse than the 80th Congress, if you do!
