Sentence 1: 1948 Address The Armory Akron Ohio

Mr. Chairman, fellow Democrats:
Before I say anything else, I should like to thank you people of Akron and all the people of Ohio for your tremendous registration in this crucial election.
Sentence 2: You have given the Nation magnificent proof of your good citizenship.
Sentence 3: I want to thank you not only as the Democratic Party's candidate for President, but also as President of the United States.
Sentence 4: This is your answer to bad government--both at home and abroad.
Sentence 5: I have had a magnificent reception in Ohio today.
Sentence 6: In every State I have been, I think that welcome can't be equaled, but every time it is equaled, and usually bettered.
Sentence 7: I thank all of you--Democrats and Republicans, industrial workers and farmers, professional people and small businessmen.
Sentence 8: I want to thank you for your appreciation of the rights, duties, and opportunities of American citizenship.
Sentence 9: You know, you are the Government, if you exercise your right to vote.
Sentence 10: The people are the Government in this great country, and when you don't vote, you shirk your duty as a part of the Government.
Sentence 11: So long as this election is decided by votes of the people and not by their failure to vote, I have no fears for the future of this great country--neither have I any fears for the outcome of the election on November 2d.
Sentence 12: This campaign is the people's crusade.
Sentence 13: Let no one tell you that the people are not interested.
Sentence 14: They are interested.
Sentence 15: They are waking up to what the Republicans propose to do to them.
Sentence 16: I have lived a long time--64 years--and I have travelled a lot, but never before have I seen such turnouts as I have seen all over this great country of ours.
Sentence 17: From early morning until late at night, wherever I have travelled, a welcoming crowd has greeted the train.
Sentence 18: This has been true in large cities and industrial areas and also in what Senator Taft calls "the whistlestops.
Sentence 19: "
Now, as I have said time and again, there is one basic issue in this campaign.
Sentence 20: This is it: The Democratic Party and the people against special privilege and the privileged few.
Sentence 21: That is the issue in this campaign.
Sentence 22: The Republicans have the propaganda and the money, but we have the people, and the people have the votes.
Sentence 23: That's why we're going to win.
Sentence 24: The Republicans have the money because the big corporations have found out they can get what they want from the Republican Party.
Sentence 25: We have the people because the people have found out that they can get what they want from the Democratic Party.
Sentence 26: The Democratic Party thinks in terms of doing things for the people--higher minimum wages, broader social security, protection in old age, better medical care, better schools and better homes, and a better life for the men and women who do the world's work.
Sentence 27: That is our basic philosophy, the philosophy of the Democratic Party--service for the people--the greatest good for the greatest number.
Sentence 28: And upon that philosophy, we have erected during the past 16 years a great progressive body of laws.
Sentence 29: We call those laws--and I say it with pride--we call them the "New Deal.
Sentence 30: "
The Republican politicians don't like the New Deal.
Sentence 31: They never have liked the New Deal, and they would like to get rid of it-repeal it--put it out of existence.
Sentence 32: This is shown by their words and deeds.
Sentence 33: They have been talking for years about "cleaning up" the New Deal.
Sentence 34: Then, in 1946, the Republicans gained control of the Congress, and they began to whittle away at the New Deal laws.
Sentence 35: Now, they have tasted blood, and they are waiting eagerly for the time when they can go ahead with a Republican Congress and a Republican President and do a real hatchet job on the New Deal without any interference.
Sentence 36: Let me remind you of some of the things the Republicans have been saying about this New Deal.
Sentence 37: Their candidate for President has been the chief prosecutor against the New Deal.
Sentence 38: He spoke against it, he campaigned against it.
Sentence 39: He wrote a book called "The Case Against the New Deal."
Sentence 40: And now he wants to go to Washington and destroy it.
Sentence 41: Are you going to let him do it ?
Sentence 42: One of their chief spokesmen, Senator Taft, has said, and I quote: "The Republican program must be designed primarily to cleaning away the rubble of the . . .
Sentence 43: New Deal .
Sentence 44: "
The Republican leader in the House of Representatives talks of how the years of so-called Democratic misrule have conspired to strangle industry and farming.
Sentence 45: I want you just to look at the figures with me for a moment.
Sentence 46: The New Deal strangled industry so much that corporate profits changed from a loss-loss!--of $400 million in 1933 to a profit of $17 billion in 1947.
Sentence 47: The New Deal strangled farming so much that farm income increased from $2 1/2 billion in 1933 to $18 billion in 1947.
Sentence 48: That is some job of strangulation, I would say.
Sentence 49: Now, let's take a look at the way the Republicans launched their attack on the New Deal as soon as they gained control of the Congress.
Sentence 50: You know, two-thirds of you stayed at home in 1946, and let the Republicans get control of the Congress.
Sentence 51: This is what they did.
Sentence 52: First, they started out after labor.
Sentence 53: One of the cornerstones of the New Deal was the Wagner Labor Relations Act, which gave national protection to the right of collective bargaining.
Sentence 54: Under its provisions, the labor movement had grown strong and healthy.
Sentence 55: The working people of the country were beginning to have something to say about what went on in the United States.
Sentence 56: Well, our old mossback reactionary friends didn't like that.
Sentence 57: They had always thought that the people who had the money ought to run everything and they still think so.
Sentence 58: They continue to think so to this day.
Sentence 59: They didn't have the courage or they didn't have the votes to repeal the Wagner Act outright.
Sentence 60: The fact was they knew they didn't have the votes to pass a straight-out repeal bill over my veto.
Sentence 61: At any rate, they decided that under the pretense of revising the Wagner Act, they would load it with provisions that would undermine the strength of the labor unions, and that's what they did.
Sentence 62: They passed, over my veto, one of the most complicated laws that anybody ever saw.
Sentence 63: That was the Taft-Hartley law.
Sentence 64: The Taft-Hartley law converts the Wagner Act from a charter protecting the basic rights of the workers into an instrument for union busting by antilabor employers.
Sentence 65: It outlaws union security provisions which have been the basis for stability and mutually satisfactory relationships for many industries for many years.
Sentence 66: It compels strike-breaking by union members-sometimes against fellow members of their own local unions.
Sentence 67: It extends the use of injunctions against labor unions, and provides preferential treatment for management in connection with such injunctions.
Sentence 68: It burdens unions with interminable red tape.
Sentence 69: It took the Conciliation Service away from the Labor Department.
Sentence 70: This was but another blow in the vicious attack by which the Republicans have virtually wrecked the Labor Department.
Sentence 71: They said in their platforms of 1940 and 1944 and 1948 that they wanted a strong Labor Department, but they have done everything they possibly can in this 80th Congress to tear up the Labor Department.
Sentence 72: Having done all these things and many more--to labor and not for labor--the Taft-Hartley law clearly demonstrates its real purpose by restricting labor's right to engage in political activities.
Sentence 73: They are afraid of your votes.
Sentence 74: Having tightened the screws on the workingman, the proponents of this scheme undertook to protect themselves from reprisal at the place where the workers of America can still make their voices count-at the ballot box.
Sentence 75: In approaching the problems of labor and management, we should move forward, and not backward.
Sentence 76: I believe that the collective bargaining process should be used for achieving full employment and full production.
Sentence 77: One of the great accomplishments of the Democratic administration is the Full Employment Act of 1946, which was passed by a Democratic Congress.
Sentence 78: This act provides a plan for continuing prosperity.
Sentence 79: Those old Republican mossbacks fought this bill; they called it socialistic and impracticable.
Sentence 80: But we passed it, and we now have 61 million people employed in this country.
Sentence 81: The point I want to make is that, if we are to have full employment and full production, labor and management must work together.
Sentence 82: That is the kind of unity the Democratic Party believes in.
Sentence 83: The unity that we have sought is a unity based upon a partnership of equals--farmer, labor and industry.
Sentence 84: This is a democracy as we understand it.
Sentence 85: This is the only way in which we believe our democratic institutions can be maintained and preserved.
Sentence 86: Any plan which seeks to weaken one group in order to establish the superior power of another is not democratic unity and threatens the basis on which our free institutions rest.
Sentence 87: But the Taft-Hartley law is not the only attack the Republicans have made against the New Deal.
Sentence 88: And it is not the only attack in which they have been successful.
Sentence 89: They have been hacking away at social security benefits.
Sentence 90: They passed a law-again over my veto--taking social security insurance benefits away from almost a million people.
Sentence 91: Then in the face of that action, they went to Philadelphia and put a plank in their platform which says--and I quote it: "Consistent with the vigorous existence of our competitive economy, we urge extension of the Federal old-age and survivors insurance program and increase of benefits to a more realistic level."
Sentence 92: Now they went to Philadelphia and wrote that after they had passed a law taking a million people out from under social security.
Sentence 93: Extension, indeed!
Sentence 94: Extension of the very thing they had just finished cutting down!
Sentence 95: They talk about increasing benefits, too; so I promptly gave them a chance to do something about that, by calling them back into special session.
Sentence 96: And we quickly found out that we couldn't take that part of their platform seriously, either.
Sentence 97: I have never yet seen a Republican platform that you could take seriously.
Sentence 98: They talk--and the Democrats act!
Sentence 99: Now, let me say something about what they are proposing to do to the New Deal when and if they get a Republican President to go along with a Republican Congress.
Sentence 100: Their attitude has been made clear by the record, and their plans are made clear by their spokesmen.
Sentence 101: One of them, a Republican Congressman--Dondero by name--from Michigan, wrote an article telling about how they plan to wreck our policy concerning public power.
Sentence 102: I told the people about that in El Paso, Tex., a couple of weeks ago.
Sentence 103: And, Dondero has been squealing since that he did not mean what he said.
Sentence 104: He says that his article in the power trust magazine was not what it said, but he meant something else.
Sentence 105: That's what they always say when you catch up with them.
Sentence 106: Now, another one of their Congressmen has been doing some writing, and I want to tell you about that.
Sentence 107: This time it is your old friend Congressman Hartley, of the Taft-Hartley team.
Sentence 108: Congressman Hartley is one of the main architects of the Republican labor policy.
Sentence 109: Now, Mr. Hartley has written a book.
Sentence 110: And just to show you that the team is still working together in unity, Senator Taft wrote the foreword for it.
Sentence 111: There's the book!
Sentence 112: [Holding it up]
Sentence 113: In the foreword, Senator Taft said, and I quote: "This book of Mr. Hartley's and the great work which he did during his years in Congress will always be of the greatest assistance and furnish sound guidance."
Sentence 114: That is the windup sentence of Mr. Taft's foreword in Mr. Hartley's book on "Our National Labor Policy"--a most interesting book.
Sentence 115: I am going to analyze it for you just a little bit because it shows just exactly where the Republicans stand.
Sentence 116: The title of this book is, "Our New National Labor Policy, the Taft-Hartley Act and the Next Steps.
Sentence 117: "
They are really going to do something to you if they get a chance.
Sentence 118: Get that: next steps--the next steps.
Sentence 119: They aren't satisfied to stop with the Taft-Hartley Act.
Sentence 120: They are going even further.
Sentence 121: Let me read to you some of the things this book says.
Sentence 122: On page 190 appears the following, and I quote:
"The Wagner Act weakened the productive potential of this Nation.
Sentence 123: I am hopeful the Taft-Hartley Act will begin to restore the productive system on a sounder basis.
Sentence 124: "
Imagine that!
Sentence 125: The act under which labor produced so magnificently during the war is described as "weakening our productive potential.
Sentence 126: "
Nobody knows more about that productive industry than I do because I spent my time during the war years investigating what labor was doing for the war effort--and they did a magnificent job!
Sentence 127: And so did the farmer, so did industry, so did every other segment of the population of our great Nation.
Sentence 128: There never was an effort like it, and there never was an effort more successful.
Sentence 129: I think maybe I had better read that to you out of the book--it is so good.
Sentence 130: Here is another statement on page 194, and I quote--listen to this now:
"To my mind, the Taft-Hartley Act represents the greatest single contribution made by any political party for the past two decades.
Sentence 131: It corrects in a single piece of legislation the outstanding mistakes of the New Deal.
Sentence 132: At the same time, it points the way toward a method to be utilized in correcting other errors of government initiated during the 1930's."
Sentence 133: I don't know what those errors were, but maybe we can find out from Mr. Hartley.
Sentence 134: Do you get that?
Sentence 135: The Republicans pass a law to break the bargaining power of the workingman, and they call it correcting the mistakes of the New Deal.
Sentence 136: "I am well aware," says Mr. Hartley on page 193, "of the political difficulties of eliminating the New Deal social legislation.
Sentence 137: It cannot be repealed at a single stroke.
Sentence 138: "
You know, the reason he said that was because I was standing there with a veto-and he couldn't get it by.
Sentence 139: Well, I certainly hope they can't repeal the New Deal legislation.
Sentence 140: I hope and pray that it can't be repealed at all.
Sentence 141: Now, listen to this, and I quote again:
"All legislation of this type requires interim treatment."
Sentence 142: That is another passage from Mr. Hartley's book.
Sentence 143: Interim treatment.
Sentence 144: Do you know what that is ?
Sentence 145: That is the Taft-Hartley law.
Sentence 146: They call it the Taft-Hartley law interim treatment.
Sentence 147: And after that, they take the gloves off, and give you the bare knuckles.
Sentence 148: In addition to the Wagner Act, there are other New Deal laws benefiting labor that we Democrats are especially proud of.
Sentence 149: One of them is the Fair Labor Standards Act which, for the first time in our history, set a floor under wages in the form of a minimum wage.
Sentence 150: It is very interesting to note what Mr. Hartley has to say about that law.
Sentence 151: I quote from page 192 in this great book of Mr. Hartley's--it is very, very interesting:
"The Fair Labor Standards Act is typical of the New Deal legislation enacted to combat the depression.
Sentence 152: Such legislation failed to affect the depression one way or another and it has definitely outlived the usefulness it was supposed ever to have had."
Isn't that a revelation?
Sentence 153: I asked this Republican "do-nothing" 80th Congress to increase the minimum wage from 40 cents to 75 cents an hour.
Sentence 154: They refused.
Sentence 155: There's the reason.
Sentence 156: Now we find that they not only refuse to increase it, but they don't even want to keep the present pitiful 40-cent minimum.
Sentence 157: But, on page 171 in Mr. Hartley's book appears the frankest confession in the book.
Sentence 158: I want you to listen to this carefully.
Sentence 159: This is what he says:
"No sooner had the Taft-Hartley law been enacted over the Truman veto than the Republican leaders of both House and Senate-listen to this now--decided that no more legislation to which organized labor could object would be passed until after the presidential election of 1948.
Sentence 160: "
I am giving this book a terrific plug because I want every man in the United States to read that book and find out just where the Republicans stand on a labor policy for the United States.
Sentence 161: Probably make Mr. Hartley rich by making this speech--he was afraid to stand for reelection to the Congress.
Sentence 162: What could be clearer than that?
Sentence 163: The "Republican leaders of both the House and Senate" decided they wouldn't hit labor another blow until after the coming election.
Sentence 164: This gives you an idea of what to expect if the Republicans get control of the Presidency also.
Sentence 165: The time has come for the working people of this Nation to realize the grave danger that confronts them.
Sentence 166: You will have to act-and act quickly--if you want to save the benefits of the New Deal.
Sentence 167: For myself, and for the Democratic Party, I completely reject the idea that we should "eliminate" the New Deal.
Sentence 168: Instead, we should build upon it a better way of life.
Sentence 169: Let me be specific.
Sentence 170: I believe that we should repeal the Taft-Hartley Act.
Sentence 171: That is what the Democratic platform says.
Sentence 172: When we put things in a Democratic platform, we try to carry them out.
Sentence 173: We don't just write them down on paper and forget about them.
Sentence 174: I believe we should increase the minimum wage from 40 cents an hour to at least 75 cents an hour.
Sentence 175: I believe social security insurance should be extended to the large groups of people not now protected.
Sentence 176: I believe that the insurance benefits should be increased by approximately 50 percent.
Sentence 177: I believe we should expand our facilities for looking after the Nation's health.
Sentence 178: I believe that the Federal Government should provide aid to the States in meeting the educational needs of our children.
Sentence 179: I believe the Congress should provide aid for slum clearance and low-rent housing.
Sentence 180: I believe we should do something, at once, about high prices.
Sentence 181: All these things are on the record, my friends.
Sentence 182: I have made my position clear repeatedly and in detail to the American people.
Sentence 183: The other fellow hasn't done that.
Sentence 184: These are things you can expect from the Democratic Party.
Sentence 185: They are not only in the Democratic platform, but we have repeatedly acted upon them before the Congress and before the country, and you know exactly where I stand on them.
Sentence 186: You can only get them from the Democratic Party.
Sentence 187: Our program is for the people.
Sentence 188: And that's why we're going to win this election on November the ad.
