Sentence 1: 1948 Address Johnstown Pennsylvania

Mr. Chairman, and all these distinguished guests and candidates for office, and good Democrats all:
I'm highly pleased to be back in Johnstown today and to have this opportunity to talk with you about the issues of this campaign.
Sentence 2: I'm especially glad to be in Buzz Wagner's hometown.
Sentence 3: Buzz was a great hero and a great American.
Sentence 4: All of us can be proud of him.
Sentence 5: The people of Johnstown have reason also to be proud of one of Buzz Wagner's fighting comrades--Colonel Bob Coffey.
Sentence 6: He will make a fine Congressman from this 26th District, and I hope you give him a record total of votes on November 2d.
Sentence 7: If you do that, I won't have any trouble, either.
Sentence 8: The great issue in this campaign--the great issue--is whether this country is going to be governed in the interest of all the people, or in the interest of big business and special privilege.
Sentence 9: I have been criticized during this campaign for talking plainly to people about the issues, but that's the only way I know how to do business.
Sentence 10: I want you to know where I stand.
Sentence 11: I won't talk high-level platitudes that don't mean anything.
Sentence 12: That's all the people are getting from the Republican candidate for President.
Sentence 13: You know what G.O.P. stands for these days; it stands for "Grand Old Platitudes.
Sentence 14: "
As President of the United States, I am worried about a lot of things--the same things that you should worry about.
Sentence 15: One of these worries is high prices.
Sentence 16: Prices are so high now that they are cutting into people's savings.
Sentence 17: It is a terrible thing when a family has to dip into its savings to pay the grocery bill--savings which it had set aside for old age, to educate the children, or for the down payment on a home.
Sentence 18: I have done my best to get that Republican anti-everything 80th Congress to do something about high prices.
Sentence 19: I called that 80th Congress back into special session twice and asked for legislation to control high prices.
Sentence 20: The Republican leaders refused to do anything about it.
Sentence 21: But if a Republican Congress is reelected this year, the same men will be in power again and they still won't do anything!
Sentence 22: I'll tell you why they won't do anything.
Sentence 23: They won't do anything because their "big business bosses" won't let them.
Sentence 24: And a lot of the "big business bosses" of these Republican leaders are right here in Pennsylvania.
Sentence 25: Big business is making too much money out of those exorbitant prices.
Sentence 26: Back during the war we had inflationary pressures just as great as we have today.
Sentence 27: But a Democratic administration and a Democratic Congress established price controls.
Sentence 28: Because of that, prices were held down-they stayed on an even keel right through the war.
Sentence 29: When the war ended, big business decided to torpedo price controls.
Sentence 30: They wanted to take over the wartime savings of the American people.
Sentence 31: So the National Association of Manufacturers spent $3 million to fool the American people into believing that price control was a bad thing.
Sentence 32: The Republicans in Congress led the fight to end price control and, after they had ended it, they boasted about what they had done.
Sentence 33: You know what has happened since.
Sentence 34: Prices have gone up 30 cents on the Food has increased in price almost 50 on the dollar.
Sentence 35: We have had to spend our"' wartime savings to pay the grocery bill.
Sentence 36: Wages have lagged way behind prices, increasing only 20 cents on every dollar.
Sentence 37: Yet they will tell you that the increases in wages have caused high prices, and they tell the farmers that the increase in prices is caused by prices to the consumer.
Sentence 38: Now, none of these things has a word of truth in it.
Sentence 39: The truth is that the profits of the fellow who skims the cream off the people are what is causing high prices.
Sentence 40: He doesn't want those prices to go down.
Sentence 41: Now, since price increases haven't gone into wages, where has the money gone?
Sentence 42: It has gone just where big business and the Republican Party planned for it to go-into higher profits.
Sentence 43: Corporation profits after taxes have increased 70 cents on the dollar since price control was killed.
Sentence 44: You know, when wheat was going up--when wheat was going up as high as $3 a bushel, bread was increased from 10 cents to 11 cents--12 cents--13 cents and 14 cents a loaf.
Sentence 45: Well, wheat has gone down more than a dollar a bushel.
Sentence 46: Are you getting any lower price for your bread now ?
Sentence 47: Of course you're not.
Sentence 48: Don't think big business doesn't appreciate all that the Republican Party has done for it.
Sentence 49: Don't think big business doesn't appreciate the fat profits that the Republican Party has laid in its lap by killing price control.
Sentence 50: During this past summer, up to August 31, officers and directors of the country's largest corporations contributed immense sums to the Republican election campaign funds.
Sentence 51: Contributions since that time have not yet been published.
Sentence 52: Thousands of dollars came from the railroad industry.
Sentence 53: The railroad executives no doubt appreciate the fact that the Republicans passed the Bulwinkle bill over my veto.
Sentence 54: Now they don't have to worry about antitrust laws any more.
Sentence 55: Thousands of dollars came from the steel industry to show their appreciation for the 75 percent increase in steel profits since the end of price control.
Sentence 56: A quarter of a million dollars came from the big bankers.
Sentence 57: No doubt that's just a small token of appreciation for the $8 billion increase in corporation profits since price control was killed.
Sentence 58: These contributions are not just appreciation of past favors.
Sentence 59: I was down in West Virginia the other day, and I picked up this sheet here [indicating].
Sentence 60: It says: "Money in your pocket.
Sentence 61: The Republican 80th Congress reduced your income tax.
Sentence 62: The following table shows your saving under the new tax law."
Sentence 63: That is that rich man's tax bill which they passed over my veto, and they had to pass it three times before they could make a law out of it.
Sentence 64: Now they go on to say that a fellow making $2,500 saves about $78, if he has two children; and they go on to show the different savings all the way down.
Sentence 65: A man who gets $100,000 a year, they say he saves $16,658.44, if he has two children.
Sentence 66: Then they say down at the bottom, "If you want more of this constructive Government action," in the interests of special privilege--I am putting that in, in the interests of special privilege-of course, they didn't put that in!
Sentence 67: Then it says--listen to this, now: "Use your tax savings to make a substantial investment in a Republican victory."
Sentence 68: Now, if a Congress is in session for special privilege, it no longer represents the Government, and my friends, that is what I am trying to overcome.
Sentence 69: I am trying to tell you just what this Congress will do.
Sentence 70: That is why they are trying to make perfectly sure that there will not be any price control with a Republican President and a Republican Congress.
Sentence 71: But if you people here in Johnstown and the millions like you, all over the United States, come out and vote on election day, we will get a Democratic President and a Democratic Congress.
Sentence 72: Then I won't be worried with a housing shortage.
Sentence 73: I can stay in the White House another 4 years.
Sentence 74: Then we can bring prices down.
Sentence 75: Then we can bring prices down to where your weekly pay envelope will not only keep your family going for the week, but you will be able to put something aside for all the fine things you hoped to buy after the war and haven't been able to buy.
Sentence 76: Then we will have a Government for the people.
Sentence 77: That is what Government was set up for, to represent the people, not just a few of them.
Sentence 78: We will have Federal aid to education.
Sentence 79: We will have slum clearance, and half a million new low-rent houses.
Sentence 80: We will have a 75-cent minimum wage.
Sentence 81: The Republican candidate says he is for a minimum wage.
Sentence 82: He doesn't say how much.
Sentence 83: I think the smaller the minimum the better.
Sentence 84: We will have extended social security for every workingman and woman in the United States.
Sentence 85: The Republican candidate says he is for social security, yet this Republican "do-nothing" 80th Congress took a million people out from under social security!
Sentence 86: We will have health insurance to help pay the doctor bills of every American family.
Sentence 87: These are what we need for a prosperous country, and a vast majority of the American people are in favor of every single one of these issues.
Sentence 88: Big business is opposed to them.
Sentence 89: We will never get them with a Republican President and a Republican Congress.
Sentence 90: You know, back in 1946 two-thirds of you stayed at home, two-thirds of you didn't exercise that great privilege you have of controlling the Government.
Sentence 91: One-third of you went to the polls and elected that 80th Congress, and you got just what you deserved--the two-thirds of you did, because you didn't go out and exercise your rights as American citizens must.
Sentence 92: If you and millions of American voters like you go to the polls a week from Tuesday and vote the straight Democratic ticket, we can go forward together to build a richer, stronger, and better Nation for the American people and for the whole world.
