Sentence 1: 1948 Address Mechanics Hall Boston

Thank you, thank you very much.
Sentence 2: I can't tell you how very much I appreciate that magnificent reception.
Sentence 3: And the reception on the street this afternoon was something out of this world.
Sentence 4: Thank you, my good friends and fellow citizens.
Sentence 5: Twenty years ago another Democratic candidate for President came to Boston.
Sentence 6: He was that great, outstanding American, Alfred E. Smith.
Sentence 7: You gave him a tremendous reception.
Sentence 8: And when the cheers had subsided, he took all of you to his heart with one phrase.
Sentence 9: He said, "It's good to come home.
Sentence 10: "
I know just how Al Smith felt.
Sentence 11: For Massachusetts is home to every American who loves freedom and trusts the people.
Sentence 12: From the first days of our Nation, the spirit of the men and women of the Bay State has impressed upon American life the love of freedom and the hatred of tyranny.
Sentence 13: Even before the end of the Revolutionary War, Massachusetts freed her slaves--all of them--because the people held that liberty was not for any one race or creed.
Sentence 14: Here in Boston, you still stand among the Nation's foremost fighters for freedom and against intolerance.
Sentence 15: Now, many of you recall that campaign of 1928, when Al Smith ran for President against that well-known engineer--Herbert Hoover.
Sentence 16: He was one engineer who really did a job of running things backward.
Sentence 17: That campaign of 1928 was one of the most shameful political campaigns in our history.
Sentence 18: A vile whispering campaign was spearheaded by the Ku Klux Klan and by Klanminded people to discredit Al Smith.
Sentence 19: The Republican appeal was based on religious prejudice because of Al Smith's Catholic faith.
Sentence 20: The leaders of the Republican Party served notice on America then and there that they would stop at nothing in order to gain power.
Sentence 21: Don't think that the elephant has changed his habits in the last 20 years.
Sentence 22: This Republican elephant is not that kind of elephant.
Sentence 23: They're trying to make you believe he has that new look, but he hasn't.
Sentence 24: That Al Smith campaign of 1928 was fought with different arguments from those we hear today.
Sentence 25: But, fundamentally, the issue was the same--that is, the rights of all the people against special privilege for the few.
Sentence 26: I have often thought what a different and better world we would have had if Al Smith had been elected President.
Sentence 27: But that didn't happen.
Sentence 28: And the great engineer we elected backed the train all the way into the waiting room and brought us to panic, depression, and despair.
Sentence 29: Here at home, we had boom and bust.
Sentence 30: In our dealings with other countries, we had Republican high tariffs, political isolation, and economic confusion--forces that helped to bring on World War II.
Sentence 31: I say to you people of Boston that if Al Smith--and not Herbert Hoover--had been chosen President in 1928, we and the world would have been spared untold misery and suffering.
Sentence 32: Unfortunately, there was no mechanical Republican substitute for Al Smith's great heart.
Sentence 33: No engineering equivalent could be found for his moral courage, his passion for justice, and his love of humanity.
Sentence 34: After the Republicans had made such a mess of our domestic welfare and world security, we brought to the Presidency a Democrat--that courageous leader and great humanitarian, Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Sentence 35: Under Roosevelt's leadership, we licked the Hoover depression, we rebuilt a strong America, and we won the greatest war in all history.
Sentence 36: I am proud to have been a part in Roosevelt's great fight for the rights and liberties of humanity.
Sentence 37: At the end of the war, in 1945, the people of this country were more prosperous than ever before in their history.
Sentence 38: The Democrats planned it that way.
Sentence 39: And in spite of the scorn and derision which the Republicans in Congress expressed about Government planning, that planning paid off.
Sentence 40: Labor was stronger than ever before.
Sentence 41: The farmers were more secure than ever before.
Sentence 42: Business was making more money than ever before.
Sentence 43: Our homes and our earnings were protected against inflation and rising prices.
Sentence 44: We seemed to be headed for a period of safe and wholesome progress in this country.
Sentence 45: But in November 1946 we suffered a misfortune which now threatens to destroy our hopes and our safety with a new wave of blind and selfish reaction.
Sentence 46: Two years ago, when it was the responsibility of the people to elect a new Congress, millions of Americans failed to vote.
Sentence 47: Almost two-thirds of those entitled to vote did not vote.
Sentence 48: And the result was the notorious "do-nothing" Republican Both Congress--the Congress that owes its election to Democrats who didn't bother to vote.
Sentence 49: You know the record of that Congress.
Sentence 50: You know how it refused to deal with inflation and how it let prices keep on rising.
Sentence 51: You know how it failed to provide low-rent housing and how it remained faithful to the slogan of "Two families in every garage.
Sentence 52: "
You know how it played the game of big business lobbies at Washington and how it shackled labor with that awful Taft-Hartley
law.
Sentence 53: And now the Republicans tell us that they stand for unity.
Sentence 54: In the old days, Al Smith would have said, "That's baloney."
Sentence 55: Today, I think he would say, "That's a lot of hooey."
Sentence 56: And if that rhymes with anything, it is not my fault.
Sentence 57: They made their great mistake when they decided that the election of 1946 was a mandate--a mandate, mind you--to destroy the New Deal.
Sentence 58: Two years ago the people lost control of the Congress.
Sentence 59: Control passed to big business-to special privilege--to the owners of the Republican Party.
Sentence 60: Big business and special privilege have only one idea--to charge all that traffic will bear.
Sentence 61: Through the action of the .Both Congress they have given you warning of worse things to come.
Sentence 62: But less than a week from now you will have a chance to regain control of your Government.
Sentence 63: You can elect a Democratic Congress and a Democratic President.
Sentence 64: My friends, there will never be a time in your life when you can spend 2 hours to better advantage than by voting on this election day, November the 2d.
Sentence 65: For more than your prosperity hangs on the result of that decision.
Sentence 66: The peace and freedom of the entire world depend on the courage and imagination of a people's Government at Washington.
Sentence 67: Yesterday, the free peoples of the world were threatened by the black menace of fascism.
Sentence 68: The American people helped to save them.
Sentence 69: Today, the free peoples of the world are threatened by the red menace of communism.
Sentence 70: And again, the American people are helping to save them.
Sentence 71: I think that I speak for every loyal American-Democrat and Republican alike--when I say that we detest what Communists stand for, and what they have done to the free peoples under their control.
Sentence 72: If the people of some other country freely choose a Communist form of government, that is their own business.
Sentence 73: But we don't want any Communist government in the United States of America.
Sentence 74: And if the people of other countries don't want communism, we don't want to see it imposed upon them against their will.
Sentence 75: We have been taking positive and successful action, everywhere in the world, to halt the threat of communism.
Sentence 76: There are some Republicans who have been trying to make you believe that your Government is endangered by Communist infiltration.
Sentence 77: That is just a plain, malicious lie.
Sentence 78: But that is not a new form of attack.
Sentence 79: The Republican candidate for President in 1944, who is trying again this year, said here in Boston--now listen to this--he said, right here in Boston--that Franklin Roosevelt was soliciting the support of Communists.
Sentence 80: He said that the Communists were seizing control of the New Deal.
Sentence 81: Those statements were absurd and ridiculous.
Sentence 82: They were just as absurd as the reasons this same Republican candidate gave in 1944 as to why the New Deal could not provide jobs after the war.
Sentence 83: I wish you would ask him about that now.
Sentence 84: Ask him how many jobs there are today.
Sentence 85: He was going to blame us if there were no jobs.
Sentence 86: So, if he will give us credit for the 61 million people working today, that will be all right.
Sentence 87: He won't do that.
Sentence 88: Sixty-one million!
Sentence 89: I said 61 million people.
Sentence 90: There are more people at work today than ever before in the history of the country.
Sentence 91: There isn't a man in the United States who, if he wants a job, can't find one--and with good pay.
Sentence 92: I wish you would ask that Republican candidate sometime how many jobs the Republicans were providing in 1932.
Sentence 93: All of this Republican talk about communism in 1944 and again this year is in the same pattern with their appeals to religious prejudice against Al Smith in 1928.
Sentence 94: They are afraid to go before the American people on the merits of the policies they believe in.
Sentence 95: So they try to distract the people's attention with false issues.
Sentence 96: I want you to get this straight now.
Sentence 97: I hate communism.
Sentence 98: I deplore what it does to the dignity and freedom of the individual.
Sentence 99: I detest the godless creed it teaches.
Sentence 100: I have fought it at home.
Sentence 101: I have fought it abroad, and I shall continue to fight it with all my strength.
Sentence 102: This is one issue on which I shall never surrender.
Sentence 103: Now, my friends, the truth of the matter is, the Communists are doing all they can to defeat me and help my Republican opponent.
Sentence 104: Just take a look at the facts.
Sentence 105: The Communist Party of the United States is today supporting a third-party candidate in an effort to defeat me.
Sentence 106: In State after State the Republicans have worked to get this Communist-supported candidate on the ballot in order to defeat me, and with me, the party of the people who want no share of this unholy alliance.
Sentence 107: You can all see the Republican point of view--it is anything to get votes.
Sentence 108: But you may wonder why the Communists, with their supposed hatred for capitalism, are working night and day for the victory of the party of big business.
Sentence 109: Well, I'll tell you why.
Sentence 110: The Communists don't want me to be President, because this country, under a Democratic administration, has rallied the forces of all the democracies of the world to safeguard freedom and to save free people everywhere from Communist slavery.
Sentence 111: Our goal is peace--a lasting peace in the world.
Sentence 112: It is our conviction that peace in this atomic age is an absolute necessity.
Sentence 113: But only a peace that is based on human rights and freedom will be a lasting peace.
Sentence 114: I propose to keep on doing my level best to win a lasting peace.
Sentence 115: That must be done, not only for the people of the United States, but for people everywhere in the world.
Sentence 116: In March of last year I announced a fundamental decision of your Government, designed to preserve the freedom of the world.
Sentence 117: In stating that doctrine, I said: "It must be the policy of the United States to support free peoples who are resisting attempted subjugation by armed minorities or by outside pressures.
Sentence 118: "
Our first step under that doctrine was to give economic and military aid to Greece and Turkey, two countries right under the shadow of Communist domination.
Sentence 119: The whole world knows of the success of this policy.
Sentence 120: Now, the Communists will never forgive me for that.
Sentence 121: This was only the first step in a broad program to check the spread of communism.
Sentence 122: The next step was the European recovery program, know as the Marshall plan.
Sentence 123: [
See APP Note.]
Sentence 124: You have heard of the heartening results which are now being achieved under this program in 16 European countries.
Sentence 125: Not only are hungry people being fed, but industries have been reconstructed and farms restored and railways and mines set in order.
Sentence 126: As a result of these wise measures the European recovery program is driving back the threat of communism.
Sentence 127: And the Communists will never forgive me for that, either.
Sentence 128: Let's take three European countries--Italy, France, and Germany--and see why the Communists hate your President so bitterly.
Sentence 129: Our aid has given Italy a new lease on freedom.
Sentence 130: Our aid has helped really decisive popular support for the freely elected government of Italy.
Sentence 131: It has shown the Italian people that they can solve their economic problems under democracy.
Sentence 132: I wonder what would have happened to Italy without our help?
Sentence 133: I think we all know.
Sentence 134: The salvation of Italy from Communist tyranny is one of the great achievements of our recovery program.
Sentence 135: And for that the Communists will never forgive me.
Sentence 136: Our aid has also been a bulwark of free democracy in France.
Sentence 137: There, as throughout Europe, we are using our economic strength to raise the living standards of the people, and thus to avoid the danger of a Fascist reaction or a Communist tyranny.
Sentence 138: And, the Communists hold that against me, too,
In Germany, we have taken the frank and firm position that communism must not spread its tentacles into the Western Zone.
Sentence 139: We shall not retreat from that position.
Sentence 140: We shall feed the people of Berlin, and the people of Germany will be given their chance to work out a decent life under a democratic government.
Sentence 141: Now, the Communists hate me for that, too.
Sentence 142: As an American, as well as your President, I resent the contemptible Republican slur that charges me with being "soft" where Communist tyranny is concerned.
Sentence 143: Under your Democratic administration, the people of the United States have thrown themselves wholeheartedly into the support of freedom and democracy against the predatory pressures of communism.
Sentence 144: Our sustained, unprecedented worldwide fight against the spread of communism has brought new hope to people everywhere in the world.
Sentence 145: Now, on the strength of that record, it is clear why the Communists would like to bring about my defeat, and elect a Republican President.
Sentence 146: But I am surprised that the Republican Party should lend assistance to this Communist intrigue.
Sentence 147: Let me remind you that the Communist Party in this country reached its maximum strength in 1932, under a Republican President.
Sentence 148: Communism thrives on misery.
Sentence 149: Human suffering nourishes the Communist menace.
Sentence 150: That menace withers away where there is prosperity, justice, and tolerance.
Sentence 151: The real threat of communism in this country lies in the danger of another major depression.
Sentence 152: The real threat of communism lies in widespread unemployment and arrogant injustice, such as we had in 1932.
Sentence 153: The real threat of communism in this country grows out of the Republican policies of the 80th Congress--policies which threaten to put an end to American prosperity.
Sentence 154: The real threat of communism in this country grows out of the submission of the Republican Party to the dictates of big business, and its determination to destroy the hard-won rights of American labor.
Sentence 155: You can fight communism on November 2d with a Democratic vote, and you can defeat Republican reaction at the same time.
Sentence 156: Reactionary Republican policies invited communism in 1932.
Sentence 157: We were saved then, but we cannot afford to take that risk again.
Sentence 158: If the Republican candidate wants to rid the country of Communists--and I believe he has some of them right in his own State of New York--he ought to begin by shaking off the hand of reaction which now has a stranglehold on the Republican Party.
Sentence 159: But somehow, I don't see him doing that.
Sentence 160: It all falls into the same old Republican pattern--appeal to the passions of prejudice and intolerance, and hope to get the votes.
Sentence 161: All I can say is that I'm proud to be a Democrat.
Sentence 162: We are engaged in a great crusade--a crusade for freedom, for tolerance, for the rights and welfare of all the people.
Sentence 163: This fight is Al Smith's fight.
Sentence 164: This fight is Roosevelt's fight.
Sentence 165: And now it is my fight.
Sentence 166: More than that, it is your fight.
Sentence 167: And I'm proud to be making this fight with you for the things in which we believe.
Sentence 168: With your help, and your courage, and your enthusiasm, we are going to win this fight on November the 2d.
