Sentence 1: 1948 Address The Stadium Butte Montana

Governor, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Chairman:
Sentence 2: You know what I think?
Sentence 3: I think it would be a fine thing if your band would play just one more piece before I have to speak.
Sentence 4: [The band played Sousa's "Stag and Stripes Forever."
Sentence 5: ]
Thank you very much.
Sentence 6: I think that one half the reason for this great crowd being here tonight is just to see and hear this good band.
Sentence 7: I understand that they went out to Hollywood and stole the show.
Sentence 8: I wish you would come back to Missouri sometime and steal the show.
Sentence 9: I can't tell you how overwhelmed I am at the welcome you gave me this afternoon on the streets.
Sentence 10: In Kansas City, which is a suburb of my old hometown, I have never had such a welcome.
Sentence 11: There are only two other places that I know of to compare with it; one was at Mexico City and at Rio de Janeiro, the capital of Brazil.
Sentence 12: I am indeed happy to be here tonight, to say a word or two to this great city in Montana, this city which made such a great contribution to the winning of two world wars.
Sentence 13: I have been here before on several occasions.
Sentence 14: On one occasion I was here as a candidate for Vice President of the United States.
Sentence 15: I had a wonderful reception.
Sentence 16: Of course it wasn't anything like this one because I was only a candidate for Vice President at that time.
Sentence 17: But I enjoyed the visit immensely, and it evidently did some good.
Sentence 18: I am also happy to be here in the State of Senator Murray, and Congressman Mike Mansfield.
Sentence 19: Both these gentlemen are close personal friends of mine.
Sentence 20: They both ably and capably represent Montana in the Congress of the United States, and I have confidence in both of them.
Sentence 21: I would like to discuss with you just for a little while some of the things with which this country is faced--domestically.
Sentence 22: We have a bipartisan foreign policy, and I hope that bipartisan foreign policy will always continue.
Sentence 23: We are now the world's leader and we must have a foreign policy that is continuing.
Sentence 24: That is the reason it is necessary for our political fights to stop at the water's edge..
Sentence 25: But there are other things which I can discuss, and things in which you are vitally interested.
Sentence 26: When the World War ceased, when Japan folded up, everyone was afraid that things would go into a tailspin--that there would be no jobs and there might be a depression.
Sentence 27: On September 6, 1945, I sent a policy message to the Congress of the United States and among other things I asked the Congress to make an extension of price control which would expire in 1946.
Sentence 28: And then again in January 1946, I made the same request of that Congress.
Sentence 29: And again along in May I made the same request of that Congress.
Sentence 30: The price control was not extended until June 30, 1946, on the day on which it expired, and they sent me a bill that I couldn't sign.
Sentence 31: I had to veto it.
Sentence 32: It took 30 days for them to write another bill, which was almost as bad, and I had to sign that or get nothing, and I signed it.
Sentence 33: It didn't work.
Sentence 34: Prices immediately began to climb, and I immediately began to warn the Congress and the country what would happen if we couldn't control prices.
Sentence 35: And along in November 1946 about 66 2/3 of the voters stayed at home, and you elected the present Congress.
Sentence 36: You elected the present Congress.
Sentence 37: I had a telegram just a little while ago from a group of laboringmen out on the west coast requesting me not to appoint a board to settle the dispute between them and their employers because under the present labor law it was not to be to their advantage.
Sentence 38: I sent them a reply to that and told them that I am the President of the United States, and I am sworn to enforce the laws that are on the books of the United States, and I shall follow the law.
Sentence 39: They should have thought of that situation in November 1946 when they weren't voting.
Sentence 40: But I am extremely interested in the present situation with regard to prices.
Sentence 41: They are still going up.
Sentence 42: Now, three times since this Congress has been in power I have asked for a control of prices.
Sentence 43: In January 1947, again in 1947 when I called a special session of Congress, and again in 1948 in the Message on the State of the Union, I asked for the conditions to be met with which we are faced.
Sentence 44: You know the results I got?
Sentence 45: I was told that the prices would control themselves.
Sentence 46: Well, they will.
Sentence 47: Now the prices are so arranged that the people who have a lot of money can get anything that they want, and people with very little money can't get what they want, and food prices are at the top of the ladder.
Sentence 48: They have one of these graphs where they run up prices, and the prices run up over the graph, it has gone so high, and it is the poorer man that is affected by that.
Sentence 49: Now under Government control of prices the consumers' interest is looked after.
Sentence 50: Under this control we have now, it's the man who controls the food and the clothing and the other things, and he can take all the traffic can bear, and let the common everyday man go hang.
Sentence 51: If he can't get them he can do without.
Sentence 52: In fact, one of our candidates for President said the best way to control prices was not to buy.
Sentence 53: I guess he would let you starve, I don't know.
Sentence 54: I am not in that class.
Sentence 55: I am out here to tell you people just exactly what you get when a situation such as price controls are released too quickly.
Sentence 56: Production did not catch up with consumption.
Sentence 57: We have now more people at work than ever have been at work before in the history of the country, and the gloom artists said that we would have people out of work.
Sentence 58: Well now, when people are at work they have money to spend and they want goods and services, and when these goods and services are not available, and there is no ceiling to prevent them from going out of sight, then the poor man can't get what he needs to wear and to eat and to live.
Sentence 59: And speaking about places to live, there is a housing shortage all over the United States.
Sentence 60: A lot of houses were just washed away at the mouth of the Columbia River.
Sentence 61: Some 18,000 people, I am told, have been made homeless by the rampage of the Columbia River.
Sentence 62: Part of that rampage started here at Silver Bow Creek.
Sentence 63: If we could control the Silver Bow Creeks that go to make up the Columbia River, we can stop these floods.
Sentence 64: That is what I have been fighting for ever since I went to the Congress in 1935.
Sentence 65: But the housing condition is a condition and not a theory, as Mr. Cleveland once said.
Sentence 66: Way back when I was in the Senate more than 4 years ago, there was introduced into the Senate a bill called the Wagner-Ellender-Taft bill.
Sentence 67: They turned it around the other way, now they call it the Taft-Ellender-Wagner bill.
Sentence 68: I am going to call it the Wagner-Ellender-Taft bill.
Sentence 69: That is a housing bill in the interests of the whole country and not just in the interests of the real estate lobby.
Sentence 70: That bill passed the Senate three times.
Sentence 71: It even passed this Senate by the help of a lot of good men in there who knew what they were doing.
Sentence 72: It has been shelved in the House and it is still shelved, and the poor man is still going to be out of housing and the veteran is going to be out of housing because he can't afford to pay the prices that are on now, because the prices have gone out of sight, just as they have for food and clothing.
Sentence 73: I asked for the proper controls and I have asked for the Taft-Ellender-Wagner bill, but I don't think I am going to get it.
Sentence 74: I think that this Congress is going to adjourn, and I think some of this Congress is going to Philadelphia to try to fool the people into making them believe they have done something for them in this Congress.
Sentence 75: Let's wait and see.
Sentence 76: If this Congress goes away without passing an agricultural bill, without passing a housing bill, without doing something about prices, this Congress has not done anything for the country.
Sentence 77: They should stay there until they get those things done.
Sentence 78: Now this Congress said in its platform-the Republicans said in their platform--of course that is the platform of the Congress now--they said that they were going to make a strong Labor Department.
Sentence 79: They were going to make something out of the Labor Department.
Sentence 80: Well, you know what they have done?
Sentence 81: They have almost completely abolished the Labor Department!
Sentence 82: They have almost completely abolished the Labor Department.
Sentence 83: They wouldn't pass an employment bill.
Sentence 84: Way back right after the war, along in 1946, Senator Murray introduced the Employment Act of 1946, and it was passed by the Congress at that time.
Sentence 85: Now this Congress has spent its time trying to tear the Employment Act of 1946 to pieces, and they succeeded admirably.
Sentence 86: They were not satisfied with that.
Sentence 87: They have cut out the appropriation--or most of it--for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and you know what that Bureau does?
Sentence 88: That Bureau shows us what the economic situation in the country is.
Sentence 89: It shows us what prices are and what causes their condition.
Sentence 90: You see, they not only knocked out price control and refused to enact another one which would be a control and a brake on the situation, they have taken off the speedometer which tells you how fast you are going and how high those prices are going up-in the form of the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Sentence 91: They don't want to hold the brake on prices.
Sentence 92: They don't want us to know by the speedometer what the prices are and how they affect the country.
Sentence 93: If that is helping the Labor Department, then I don't understand government.
Sentence 94: I wish I could stand here all evening and enumerate the things that should be done that have not been done by this famous 80th Congress.
Sentence 95: I could stand here for I don't know how long and tell you how they tore up the budget, what they were going to do to the budget and how the budget really came out.
Sentence 96: They said last year they were going to cut billions off the budget.
Sentence 97: Well, you know what they finally did?
Sentence 98: They came out with an expenditure of $200 million more than I asked for.
Sentence 99: And you know how they saved money on that budget?
Sentence 100: The Treasury every year has to make tax refunds to people who overpay their taxes, and there are a lot of people like that in this country.
Sentence 101: We return about $2,300 million every year to people who pay too much taxes.
Sentence 102: And they took out of the sum that was necessary to be returned to these people $800 million, and said they were saving money.
Sentence 103: You know what they had to do?
Sentence 104: They had to put back over a billion dollars more to take the place of that $800 million which was drawing 6 percent interest all the time the Treasury did not have the money to return the taxes.
Sentence 105: Now that is economy, if I know anything about it, in reverse.
Sentence 106: As I say, I wish I could stand here all night and talk to you about these things, because you ought to know them.
Sentence 107: That is the reason I am out here, to tell you the truth, which you haven't been getting.
Sentence 108: They have been telling you a lot of things about your President, that he doesn't know what goes on, that he can't handle the Government.
Sentence 109: It seems to me that it has run pretty well for the last 3 years.
Sentence 110: Everybody has got something to eat, and has got a little more money in his pocket--more than he ever had before.
Sentence 111: Business has been the best in the history of the country.
Sentence 112: There is more money on deposit in the banks, and the banks are not going to blow up in your face like they used to.
Sentence 113: That is one thing you can be proud of.
Sentence 114: But I want to say to you that the welfare of this country is at stake.
Sentence 115: I want you to inform yourselves on the facts as they are.
Sentence 116: And sometime later when the lines are drawn, I am going to tell you just what you have to do to meet the situation.
Sentence 117: It has certainly been a pleasure to me to come out here and discuss these things with you.
Sentence 118: I know you are interested.
Sentence 119: I know this is an intelligent audience, for I have been here before and talked to you, and you believed in me.
Sentence 120: I hope you will continue to do that.
Sentence 121: Thank you very much.
