Sentence 1: 1949 Radio Address Democratic Womens Day
Sentence 2: [Broadcast from the White House at 3:05 p.m.]
THANK YOU, Mrs. Edwards.
Sentence 3: It certainly was a great pleasure to listen to the talks of these three good American women.
Sentence 4: I am glad to speak to the women of the United States on Democratic Women's Day.
Sentence 5: As President, I know that women have an interest in the welfare of the Government that goes far beyond job holding or partisanship.
Sentence 6: I know that women are not misled by political slogans.
Sentence 7: They have learned that the real issues in political activity are the well-being of the country and the future of their families.
Sentence 8: Women look beneath the labels and see the facts.
Sentence 9: It is my firm conviction that the Democratic Party offers more for the welfare of the country--and therefore more for the women of the country--than any other party or political group.
Sentence 10: The Democratic Party has a program.
Sentence 11: It is a program of practical measures.
Sentence 12: It is not a blueprint imposed from on high by a little group of theorists.
Sentence 13: Neither is it a set of platitudes concocted by a group of corporation lawyers in a smokefilled room.
Sentence 14: Our program is an expression of the desires of the people.
Sentence 15: The Democratic Party does not dodge issues or seek to gloss them over.
Sentence 16: We state them boldly.
Sentence 17: We propose concrete and practical action to solve them.
Sentence 18: Our program consists of measures which have come up from the grassroots--of ideas and proposals that have been discussed and hammered out among unions, in farm groups, in city councils, in county boards, and in State legislatures.
Sentence 19: Our program is as American as the soil we walk upon.
Sentence 20: It is a program unshakably founded on the principle that the power of government should be used to promote the general welfare.
Sentence 21: It is a program based upon the experience of the Democratic Party in using the power of government to establish actual conditions in which the people can achieve a better life for themselves and for their children.
Sentence 22: It is a program of what should be done and what our experience tells us can be done.
Sentence 23: We have just heard, from the ladies present here, the viewpoints of the farmer, the worker, and the businessman.
Sentence 24: It is interesting to see how these three points of view fit together.
Sentence 25: Each of these groups depends on the others.
Sentence 26: Farmers cannot be prosperous unless industrial workers have good wages and steady employment so they can buy the products that farmers raise.
Sentence 27: Workers cannot be prosperous unless the farmers have good incomes and can buy the things that industrial workers make.
Sentence 28: Businessmen cannot be prosperous unless both the farmers and the workers have the money to buy the things they sell.
Sentence 29: All groups in our Nation depend on one another.
Sentence 30: That is what the term "general welfare" means.
Sentence 31: The general welfare is the sum total of the welfare of all the groups in our country.
Sentence 32: The Constitution was established to "promote the general welfare."
Sentence 33: These are the words of its preamble.
Sentence 34: And that is the duty of our Government.
Sentence 35: The Democratic Party proposes to see that the Federal Government carries out this constitutional responsibility.
Sentence 36: We will do that in spite of the outcries of certain people who say there is something alien or dangerous in the idea of a government that works for the welfare of all our citizens.
Sentence 37: Those people are just about 160 years behind the times.
Sentence 38: They want us to forget the language of the Constitution itself.
Sentence 39: We have some serious problems in this country today.
Sentence 40: If we are to continue to promote the general welfare, we must devise modern methods to solve these modern problems.
Sentence 41: One of our serious problems today is the fact that there are not enough good houses for our rapidly growing population.
Sentence 42: The Democratic Party is pledged to work for good housing.
Sentence 43: The 81st Congress has just passed a public housing bill to provide assistance in building homes for low-income groups.
Sentence 44: The 81st Congress and the administration are working out solutions for the homebuilding problems of other groups.
Sentence 45: Since the 1948 election, and in spite of determined opposition, we have made great progress in the field of housing.
Sentence 46: We are going to keep right on making progress.
Sentence 47: We are just as interested in good schools as we are in good houses.
Sentence 48: I think all of you know that many boys and girls are not getting the right kind of schooling.
Sentence 49: There are not enough teachers and there are not enough school buildings.
Sentence 50: Our schools are getting steadily more crowded.
Sentence 51: Women who serve on school boards and women who teach know that in many parts of the country better schools cannot be obtained unless there is financial assistance from the Federal Government.
Sentence 52: This administration has pledged Federal aid to the States to help them improve their schools.
Sentence 53: A bill providing such aid has already passed the Senate and is now awaiting action in the House of Representatives.
Sentence 54: I shall continue to urge Congress to pass this legislation.
Sentence 55: We must also act promptly to improve the health of our Nation.
Sentence 56: The women of the country, particularly, know that in many areas there are not enough doctors or hospitals and that many families cannot afford the medical care they need.
Sentence 57: This administration has proposed a program of improved medical care.
Sentence 58: Some parts of this program, such as an expanded health service for schoolchildren and additional aid for hospital construction, have already passed the Senate.
Sentence 59: Our medical program will mean happier homes, healthier children, greater opportunity for useful lives for all the people.
Sentence 60: A good system of social security is also essential to our welfare.
Sentence 61: We established the principle a long time ago that the people of this country can protect themselves against the hazards of life and the burdens of old age by a system of social insurance.
Sentence 62: We need to make improvements in our social insurance system at this time became its benefits are entirely too low to meet current living costs.
Sentence 63: We should bring this system up to date by increasing its benefits and extending its protection to more people.
Sentence 64: This is part of the program to which the Democratic Party is firmly committed.
Sentence 65: The 81st Congress is going to improve our social security system.
Sentence 66: Another part of the Democratic Party program is to increase the minimum wage for industrial workers from 40 cents to 75 cents an hour.
Sentence 67: A bill for this purpose is well along toward final passage in the Congress, and I am confident that it will become law very shortly.
Sentence 68: Minimum wages and social security together protect our working people against disastrously low incomes.
Sentence 69: Farmers need safeguards against low incomes, too.
Sentence 70: The Democratic Party has taken the lead in working out a program for lasting farm prosperity, for we know that the welfare of the country depends upon the welfare of our farmers.
Sentence 71: We are determined to see that our economy continues to grow and expand.
Sentence 72: That is why we are enacting laws to provide for better use of our abundant natural resources, to develop more electric power, and to bring water to areas in need of it.
Sentence 73: Above all else, we want to keep the United States prosperous and strong because we know that our prosperity is the best guarantee of peace.
Sentence 74: Every measure to promote the general welfare in this country is a measure to promote peace in the world.
Sentence 75: The program of the Democratic Party is a program for prosperity and peace.
Sentence 76: It can be made effective only through the united efforts of our citizens.
Sentence 77: It is not enough for the Congress to pass these measures.
Sentence 78: They have to be brought to life by the citizens of this country, and by our State and local governments.
Sentence 79: Our public housing program will not be effective unless local authorities, backed by alert citizens, are active in building and operating local housing projects.
Sentence 80: Our program of aid to education will not be effective unless there is efficient and public-spirited hometown and home-state administration.
Sentence 81: Our farm program depends upon the joint effort of our farmers in county committees and rural cooperatives.
Sentence 82: Only the people, working together, can make our program a success.
Sentence 83: I ask you to bear that in mind when you hear people saying that measures for the general welfare are merely Federal handouts to selfish or incompetent people.
Sentence 84: I ask you to bear it in mind when you hear our opponents saying that our program is undermining local government and the moral character of our citizens.
Sentence 85: The facts are just the opposite.
Sentence 86: Our program increases opportunity and incentive among our citizens.
Sentence 87: It increases the responsibilities and activities of our local governments.
Sentence 88: The American people are not afraid of their Government, because they know it belongs to them and that they control it.
Sentence 89: Now, more than ever before, the people realize that they can use their Government to help achieve wider opportunity and greater security--to help achieve real independence for themselves and their children.
Sentence 90: This concept of government has been greatly advanced by the increasing participation of women in our political life, with their straightforward approach to public affairs.
Sentence 91: I am confident that the women of the United States will continue to exercise their democratic rights in order to build a happier and more prosperous Nation.
