Sentence 1: 1949 Inaugural Address 4
Sentence 2: [Delivered in person at the Capitol]
Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief Justice, fellow citizens:
I accept with humility the honor which the American people have conferred upon me.
Sentence 3: I accept it with a resolve to do all that I can for the welfare of this Nation and for the peace of the world.
Sentence 4: In performing the duties of my office, I need the help and the prayers of every one of you.
Sentence 5: I ask for your encouragement and for your support.
Sentence 6: The tasks we face are difficult.
Sentence 7: We can accomplish them only if we work together.
Sentence 8: Each period of our national history has had its special challenges.
Sentence 9: Those that confront us now are as momentous as any in the past.
Sentence 10: Today marks the beginning not only of a new administration, but of a period that will be eventful, perhaps decisive, for us and for the world.
Sentence 11: It may be our lot to experience, and in a large measure bring about, a major turning point in the long history of the human race.
Sentence 12: The first half of this century has been marked by unprecedented and brutal attacks on the rights of man, and by the two most frightful wars in history.
Sentence 13: The supreme need of our time is for men to learn to live together in peace and harmony.
Sentence 14: The peoples of the earth face the future with grave uncertainty, composed almost equally of great hopes and great fears.
Sentence 15: In this time of doubt, they look to the United States as never before for good will, strength, and wise leadership.
Sentence 16: It is fitting, therefore, that we take this occasion to proclaim to the world the essential principles of the faith by which we live, and to declare our aims to all peoples.
Sentence 17: The American people stand firm in the faith which has inspired this Nation from the beginning.
Sentence 18: We believe that all men have a right to equal justice under law and equal opportunity to share in the common good.
Sentence 19: We believe that all men have a right to freedom of thought and expression.
Sentence 20: We believe that all men are created equal because they are created in the image of God.
Sentence 21: From this faith we will not be moved.
Sentence 22: The American people desire, and are determined to work for, a world in which all nations and all peoples are free to govern themselves as they see fit, and to achieve a decent and satisfying life.
Sentence 23: Above all else, our people desire, and are determined to work for, peace on earth--a just and lasting peace--based on genuine agreement freely arrived at by equals.
Sentence 24: In the pursuit of these aims, the United States and other like-minded nations find themselves directly opposed by a regime with contrary aims and a totally different concept of life.
Sentence 25: That regime adheres to a false philosophy which purports to offer freedom, security, and greater opportunity to mankind.
Sentence 26: Misled by that philosophy, many peoples have sacrificed their liberties only to learn to their sorrow that deceit and mockery, poverty and tyranny, are their reward.
Sentence 27: That false philosophy is communism.
Sentence 28: Communism is based on the belief that man is so weak and inadequate that he is unable to govern himself, and therefore requires the rule of strong masters.
Sentence 29: Democracy is based on the conviction that man has the moral and intellectual capacity, as well as the inalienable right, to govern himself with reason and justice.
Sentence 30: Communism subjects the individual to arrest without lawful cause, punishment without trial, and forced labor as the chattel of the state.
Sentence 31: It decrees what information he shall receive, what art he shall produce, what leaders he shall follow, and what thoughts he shall think.
Sentence 32: Democracy maintains that government is established for the benefit of the individual, and is charged with the responsibility of protecting the rights of the individual and his freedom in the exercise of those abilities of his.
Sentence 33: Communism maintains that social wrongs can be corrected only by violence.
Sentence 34: Democracy has proved that social justice can be achieved through peaceful change.
Sentence 35: Communism holds that the world is so widely divided into opposing classes that war is inevitable.
Sentence 36: Democracy holds that free nations can settle differences justly and maintain a lasting peace.
Sentence 37: These differences between communism and democracy do not concern the United States alone.
Sentence 38: People everywhere are coming to realize that what is involved is material well-being, human dignity, and the right to believe in and worship God.
Sentence 39: I state these differences, not to draw issues of belief as such, but because the actions resulting from the Communist philosophy are a threat to the efforts of free nations to bring about world recovery and lasting peace.
Sentence 40: Since the end of hostilities, the United States has invested its substance and its energy in a great constructive effort to restore peace, stability, and freedom to the world.
Sentence 41: We have sought no territory.
Sentence 42: We have imposed our will on none.
Sentence 43: We have asked for no privileges we would not extend to others.
Sentence 44: We have constantly and vigorously supported the United Nations and related agencies as a means of applying democratic principles to international relations.
Sentence 45: We have consistently advocated and relied upon peaceful settlement of disputes among nations.
Sentence 46: We have made every effort to secure agreement on effective international control of our most powerful weapon, and we have worked steadily for the limitation and control of all armaments.
Sentence 47: We have encouraged, by precept and example, the expansion of world trade on a sound and fair basis.
Sentence 48: Almost a year ago, in company with 16 free nations of Europe, we launched the greatest cooperative economic program in history.
Sentence 49: The purpose of that unprecedented effort is to invigorate and strengthen democracy in Europe, so that the free people of that continent can resume their rightful place in the forefront of civilization and can contribute once more to the security and welfare of the world.
Sentence 50: Our efforts have brought new hope to all mankind.
Sentence 51: We have beaten back despair and defeatism.
Sentence 52: We have saved a number of countries from losing their liberty.
Sentence 53: Hundreds of millions of people all over the world now agree with us, that we need not have war--that we can have peace.
Sentence 54: The initiative is ours.
Sentence 55: We are moving on with other nations to build an even stronger structure of international order and justice.
Sentence 56: We shall have as our partners countries which, no longer solely concerned with the problem of national survival, are now working to improve the standards of living of all their people.
Sentence 57: We are ready to undertake new projects to strengthen a free world.
Sentence 58: In the coming years, our program for peace and freedom will emphasize four major courses of action.
Sentence 59: First, we will continue to give unfaltering support to the United Nations and related agencies, and we will continue to search for ways to strengthen their authority and increase their effectiveness.
Sentence 60: We believe that the United Nations will be strengthened by the new nations which are being formed in lands now advancing toward self-government under democratic principles.
Sentence 61: Second, we will continue our programs for world economic recovery.
Sentence 62: This means, first of all, that we must keep our full weight behind the European recovery program.
Sentence 63: We are confident of the success of this major venture in world recovery.
Sentence 64: We believe that our partners in this effort will achieve the status of self-supporting nations once again.
Sentence 65: In addition, we must carry out our plans for reducing the barriers to world trade and increasing its volume.
Sentence 66: Economic recovery and peace itself depend on increased world trade.
Sentence 67: Third, we will strengthen freedom-loving nations against the dangers of aggression.
Sentence 68: We are now working out with a number of countries a joint agreement designed to strengthen the security of the North Atlantic area.
Sentence 69: Such an agreement would take the form of a collective defense arrangement within the terms of the United Nations Charter.
Sentence 70: We have already established such a defense pact for the Western Hemisphere by the treaty of Rio de Janeiro.
Sentence 71: The primary purpose of these agreements is to provide unmistakable proof of the joint determination of the free countries to resist armed attack from any quarter.
Sentence 72: Every country participating in these arrangements must contribute all it can to the common defense.
Sentence 73: If we can make it sufficiently clear, in advance, that any armed attack affecting our national security would be met with overwhelming force, the armed attack might never occur.
Sentence 74: I hope soon to send to the Senate a treaty respecting the North Atlantic security plan.
Sentence 75: In addition, we will provide military advice and equipment to free nations which will cooperate with us in the maintenance of peace and security.
Sentence 76: Fourth, we must embark on a bold new program for making the benefits of our scientific advances and industrial progress available for the improvement and growth of underdeveloped areas.
Sentence 77: More than half the people of the world are living in conditions approaching misery.
Sentence 78: Their food is inadequate.
Sentence 79: They are victims of disease.
Sentence 80: Their economic life is primitive and stagnant.
Sentence 81: Their poverty is a handicap and a threat both to them and to more prosperous areas.
Sentence 82: For the first time in history, humanity posesses the knowledge and skill to relieve suffering of these people.
Sentence 83: The United States is pre-eminent among nations in the development of industrial and scientific techniques.
Sentence 84: The material resources which we can afford to use for assistance of other peoples are limited.
Sentence 85: But our imponderable resources in technical knowledge are constantly growing and are inexhaustible.
Sentence 86: I believe that we should make available to peace-loving peoples the benefits of our store of technical knowledge in order to help them realize their aspirations for a better life.
Sentence 87: And, in cooperation with other nations, we should foster capital investment in areas needing development.
Sentence 88: Our aim should be to help the free peoples of the world, through their own efforts, to produce more food, more clothing, more materials for housing, and more mechanical power to lighten their burdens.
Sentence 89: We invite other countries to pool their technological resources in this undertaking.
Sentence 90: Their contributions will be warmly welcomed.
Sentence 91: This should be a cooperative enterprise in which all nations work together through the United Nations and its specialized agencies whenever practicable.
Sentence 92: It must be a worldwide effort for the achievement of peace, plenty, and freedom.
Sentence 93: With the cooperation of business, private capital, agriculture, and labor in this country, this program can greatly increase the industrial activity in other nations and can raise substantially their standards of living.
Sentence 94: Such new economic developments must be devised and controlled to the benefit of the peoples of the areas in which they are established.
Sentence 95: Guarantees to the investor must be balanced by guarantees in the interest of the people whose resources and whose labor go into these developments.
Sentence 96: The old imperialism--exploitation for foreign profit--has no place in our plans.
Sentence 97: What we envisage is a program of development based on the concepts of democratic fair-dealing.
Sentence 98: All countries, including our own, will greatly benefit from a constructive program for the better use of the world's human and natural resources.
Sentence 99: Experience shows that our commerce with other countries expands as they progress industrially and economically.
Sentence 100: Greater production is the key to prosperity and peace.
Sentence 101: And the key to greater production is a wider and more vigorous application of modern scientific and technical knowledge.
Sentence 102: Only by helping the least fortunate of its members to help themselves can the human family achieve the decent, satisfying life that is the right of all people.
Sentence 103: Democracy alone can supply the vitalizing force to stir the peoples of the world into triumphant action, not only against their human oppressors, but also against their ancient enemies--hunger, misery, and despair.
Sentence 104: On the basis of these four major courses of action we hope to help create the conditions that will lead eventually to personal freedom and happiness for all mankind.
Sentence 105: If we are to be successful in carrying out these policies, it is clear that we must have continued prosperity in this country and we must keep ourselves strong.
Sentence 106: Slowly but surely we are weaving a world fabric of international security and growing prosperity.
Sentence 107: We are aided by all who wish to live in freedom from fear--even by those who live today in fear under their own governments.
Sentence 108: We are aided by all who want relief from lies and propaganda--those who desire truth and sincerity.
Sentence 109: We are aided by all who desire self-government and a voice in deciding their own affairs.
Sentence 110: We are aided by all who long for economic security--for the security and abundance that men in free societies can enjoy.
Sentence 111: We are aided by all who desire freedom of speech, freedom of religion, and freedom to live their own lives for useful ends.
Sentence 112: Our allies are the millions who hunger and thirst after righteousness.
Sentence 113: In due time, as our stability becomes manifest, as more and more nations come to know the benefits of democracy and to participate in growing abundance, I believe that those countries which now oppose us will abandon their delusions and join with the free nations of the world in a just settlement of international differences.
Sentence 114: Events have brought our American democracy to new influence and new responsibilities.
Sentence 115: They will test our courage, our devotion to duty, and our concept of liberty.
Sentence 116: But I say to all men, what we have achieved in liberty, we will surpass in greater liberty.
Sentence 117: Steadfast in our faith in the Almighty, we will advance toward a world where man's freedom is secure.
Sentence 118: To that end we will devote our strength, our resources, and our firmness of resolve.
Sentence 119: With God's help, the future of mankind will be assured in a world of justice, harmony, and peace.
