Sentence 1: 1949 The Presidents News Conference 604

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: I have some announcements to make to you this morning, that is the reason I called the meeting.
Sentence 3: [1.]
Sentence 4: Secretary Marshall and Under Secretary Lovett are resigning, effective the 20th of January.
Sentence 5: And I am appointing Dean Acheson as Secretary of State, and James E. Webb as Under Secretary of State--who is now the Director of the Budget.
Sentence 6: I am appointing Frank Pace, Jr., of Arkansas, Director of the Budget, to replace Webb.
Sentence 7: And Frederick J. Lawton as Assistant Director of the Budget--
Q.
Sentence 8: Mr. President, you are going a little fast for me.
Sentence 9: After Webb?
Sentence 10: [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 11: Frank Pace of Arkansas, to be Director of the Budget.
Sentence 12: He is now Assistant Director; and Frederick J. Lawton, to be Assistant Director of the Budget.
Sentence 13: He is a career man in the Budget.
Sentence 14: Q. Is that L-a-u-g-h-t-o-n?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 15: L-a-w-t-o-n--Frederick J. Lawton.
Sentence 16: He has been in the Budget for a long time--very able fellow.
Sentence 17: I have this letter from General Marshall, and you will get mimeographed copies of this letter--dated January the 3d:
Sentence 18: [Reading] "I regret that it is necessary for me to submit my resignation as Secretary of State.
Sentence 19: "Please accept my thanks for the extraordinary consideration and complete support you have given me these past three years.
Sentence 20: I shall never forget your kindness and I submit this resignation with affectionate regard and great respect.
Sentence 21: Faithfully yours, George C. Marshall."
Sentence 22: [Reading] "Your letter of January third emphasizes to me that considerations of health compel your decision to return to private life, which I had hoped in your country's interest could be long deferred.
Sentence 23: "Those of us who have had extensive experience in public affairs know full well that there are very few indispensable men.
Sentence 24: Happily for the continuity of government, there appears from time to time a man of outstanding ability whose service in one post of responsibility gives him exceptional qualification to discharge other duties of equal moment in a quite different field of activity.
Sentence 25: You are the exemplification of the type of public servant I have in mind.
Sentence 26: "As Chief of Staff of the United States Army you were the guide and counselor of two Commanders in Chief.
Sentence 27: You brought to the performance of your task abilities and qualifications which inspired the armies of the democratic nations to victory in a war unparalleled in magnitude and in the vastness of the issues involved.
Sentence 28: "
I have said it many a time--as an interpolation-that I think General Marshall is the outstanding man of that war period.
Sentence 29: [Continuing reading] "When the great office of Secretary of State became vacant it seemed to me fortunate that you were available for the position, although you had richly earned retirement.
Sentence 30: As it turned out, your previous training and experience were a preparation for the onerous duties which befell you in directing our foreign affairs-particularly in the formulation and execution of the Marshall Plan.
Sentence 31: "I had hoped that with medical treatment and rest and recuperation you could continue in office.
Sentence 32: I am, however, unwilling to assume the responsibility of further jeopardizing your health.
Sentence 33: I accept, therefore, effective on January 20, 1949, your resignation as Secretary of State.
Sentence 34: In taking this action reluctantly and with deep regret, I heartily reciprocate your sentiments of affection and respect.
Sentence 35: Very sincerely yours.
Sentence 36: "
1
1
General Marshall served as Secretary of State from January 7, 1947, through January 20, 1949, and as Chief of Staff of the United States Army from September 1, 1939, through November 20, 1945.
Sentence 37: And I have this letter from Mr. Lovett:
Sentence 38: [Reading] "For personal reasons with which you are familiar, I respectfully submit my resignation as Under Secretary of State.
Sentence 39: "I thank you most sincerely for the confidence you have reposed in me, and for your unfailing consideration and kindness.
Sentence 40: "With great respect and deep appreciation, I am."
Sentence 41: [Reading] "I have received with heartfelt regret your letter of January third.
Sentence 42: Because of my familiarity with the personal considerations which prompt it, I have no recourse but to comply with its terms and accept your resignation as the Under Secretary of State, effective January 20, 1949.
Sentence 43: "In taking this action, I need hardly assure you as you return to private pursuits, that I heartily reciprocate the personal sentiments of friendship and respect which you express.
Sentence 44: "You have earned the gratitude of the Nation for outstanding service.
Sentence 45: As Special Assistant to the Secretary of War and as Assistant Secretary of War for Air, you had gained invaluable experience before I called you to assume the intricate responsibilities of the Office of the Under Secretary of State.
Sentence 46: "The country has been fortunate in having the benefit of your expert abilities in peace as well as in war.
Sentence 47: You have been guided and inspired through all of your varied service by the highest intellectual integrity, and you have brought to each task untiring industry, outstanding ability, and selfless devotion to the public interest.
Sentence 48: "Although you must now relinquish public office, I shall like to think that we can call upon you from time to time for the advice and counsel which you can give out of your rich experience.
Sentence 49: With every good wish, very sincerely yours."
2
2
Mr. Lovett served as Under Secretary of State from May 28, 1947, through January 20, 1949.
Sentence 50: Q. Mr. President, in your interpolation, did you say General Marshall is the outstanding man of the World War II period?
Sentence 51: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 52: In my opinion I said General Marshall is the outstanding man of World War II.
Sentence 53: Q. Mr. President, what prompted your selection of Mr. Webb for Under Secretary?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 54: Because he is a good man, and a good administrator; and that is what we need in that position.
Sentence 55: Mr. Lovett was that sort of man.
Sentence 56: Q. Mr. President, may we quote that interpolation?
Sentence 57: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 58: Yes.
Sentence 59: [2.]
Sentence 60: Q. Does your selection of Dean Acheson presage any change or formulation along the lines indicated by Jay Franklin in Life magazine?
Sentence 61: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 62: It does not.
Sentence 63: And that article to which you refer
3
is absolutely without foundation in fact, in nearly every instance, in every paragraph; and that's all I have to say about it.
Sentence 64: [Laughter]
3
"Inside Strategy of the Campaign: One of the advisory board tells how Truman felt, acted and planned during his winning drive," by Jay Franklin, pen name of John Franklin Carter.
Sentence 65: Life magazine, November 15, 1948.
Sentence 66: Q.
Sentence 67: In almost every instance--did you say in nearly every instance?
Sentence 68: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 69: I said in nearly every instance, and in every paragraph.
Sentence 70: Q. Mr. President, did you have any personal association with Mr. Franklin?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 71: Mr. Franklin was one of the assistants in preparing speeches during the campaign, but I never had one private interview with him at all, on any subject.
Sentence 72: [3.]
Sentence 73: Q. Mr. President, could you say anything on the speculation that there has been a Forrestal--Marshal--Lovett foreign policy as distinguished from a Truman foreign policy?
Sentence 74: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 75: I understand that you are now quoting Mr. Franklin, and I told you awhile ago that was without foundation in fact.
Sentence 76: The foreign policy has been inaugurated by the President of the United States, and carried out by the Secretary of State, and nobody else.
Sentence 77: And he has carried out the foreign policy that I stand behind, as I said to him in my letter, and as he said to me.
Sentence 78: I think that's about as clear as I can make it.
Sentence 79: Q. Mr. President, did Mr. Franklin do a better job for you than he did in the Life article?
Sentence 80: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 81: I can't answer that question, for I don't know.
Sentence 82: Q. Mr. President, did you say you had never had any private conferences with him?
Sentence 83: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 84: No, I never had a private conference with him in his life.
Sentence 85: He has been in here to see me about a job, a time or two, that's about all.
Sentence 86: Q.
Sentence 87: By the way, who put him on, do you know?
Sentence 88: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 89: I don't know.
Sentence 90: Some of the staff called him in for consultations.
Sentence 91: Q. Was he authorized, Mr. President, in that capacity, to have access to any inside information?
Sentence 92: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 93: None whatever.
Sentence 94: He never saw a top secret message since I have been President.
Sentence 95: Q. Did he ever write any of the campaign speeches?
Sentence 96: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 97: I don't know.
Sentence 98: I can't answer that question.
Sentence 99: [4.]
Sentence 100: Q. Mr. President, to go to another subject, could you enlarge your recommendations in the State of the Union Message, that the Government might find it necessary to construct manufacturing plants to make up for material in short supply?
Sentence 101: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 102: I think that if you will read that section 8, that was a recommendation for a study of the situation, and if it was found that there was a shortage not only of steel but in other lines, the Government should prepare to make loans for the purpose of overcoming that shortage, and that then, if private industry didn't feel like going ahead with it, recommendations would be made that the Government itself do it.
Sentence 103: Q.
Sentence 104: Well, it was a progressive matter--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 105: That's right.
Sentence 106: Q.--being prepared for study?
Sentence 107: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 108: If you read that section very carefully, it's very clear.
Sentence 109: Q. Will the first legislative step on that be the study or authorization for the loan?
Sentence 110: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 111: I can't--I don't know what the first legislative step will be.
Sentence 112: I made that recommendation to the Congress.
Sentence 113: It is up to them to decide on how they want to proceed.
Sentence 114: Q. Mr. President, did you have in mind that after the Government had built the plants that would be leased to people who were willing to make steel, or the Government would make the steel?
Sentence 115: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 116: It has been customary all during the war--if you remember, the Defense Plant Corporation built $20 million worth of plants, most of them integrated with private industry plants.
Sentence 117: Q. Are you thinking this will be in terms of civilian consumption, or for future national security purposes?
Sentence 118: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 119: I am thinking of the shortage of steel in civilian consumption, right now.
Sentence 120: That is the bottleneck, and the reason we can't get most of the goods that we want.
Sentence 121: [5.]
Sentence 122: Q. Mr. President, do you still favor the excess profits tax?
Sentence 123: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 124: I made it very clear in my message what I favor for tax purposes.
Sentence 125: That is up to the Congress, anyway.
Sentence 126: Tax matters must originate in the House of Representatives.
Sentence 127: Q. Mr. President, in your previous message to Congress, though, you specifically asked for an excess profits tax?
Sentence 128: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 129: That is correct.
Sentence 130: I did ask for it.
Sentence 131: Q.
Sentence 132: This time you did not?
Sentence 133: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 134: The message speaks for itself.
Sentence 135: [6.]
Sentence 136: Q. Is it your belief that the steel and power industries are deliberately refraining from necessary expansion?
Sentence 137: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 138: I wouldn't say so.
Sentence 139: I think they are not expanding as much as they should.
Sentence 140: Q.
Sentence 141: Why, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 142: I can't answer that question.
Sentence 143: You had better talk to the head of the steel industry.
Sentence 144: It's maybe something like the aluminum industry was.
Sentence 145: I remember having a hearing, when I was chairman of a certain committee in the Senate, and I recall the Aluminum Company of North America informed me that 300 million pounds was all that the country or the world would use, as far as their company was concerned.
Sentence 146: We finally succeeded in getting the industry to expand, so that they are now making 3,600 million pounds of aluminum a year, and we are still short.
Sentence 147: [7.]
Sentence 148: Q. Mr. President, in your previous State of the Union Message you have asked for statehood for Hawaii and Alaska.
Sentence 149: Have you changed your mind?
Sentence 150: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 151: No, I have not.
Sentence 152: I asked for it in this message, by implication.
Sentence 153: I told you that in my message on civil rights,
4
which was implemented as a part of this message, and Alaska and Hawaii are both part of that message.
Sentence 154: 4
See 1948 volume, this series, Item 20.
Sentence 155: [8.]
Sentence 156: Q. Mr. President, there seems to be two schools of thought as to exactly what is meant in the change in the Federal labor laws, whether the President favors what they term the "single package deal," or whether he favors the repeal, first, of the Taft-Hartley law?
Sentence 157: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 158: I made my position perfectly clear in the message, and the whole legislative end of the thing is with the Congress.
Sentence 159: I don't write legislation.
Sentence 160: I only prove it, or disapprove it.
Sentence 161: I answered your question, and made it perfectly clear in the message exactly what I want.
Sentence 162: Just read the message.
Sentence 163: Reporter:
Sentence 164: Thank you, Mr. President.
