Sentence 1: 1950
Sentence 2: Address Kiel Auditorium St Louis

Thank you.
Sentence 3: Thank you very much.
Sentence 4: I can't tell you how much I appreciate this reception, but you know, this radio time, I am told, is being paid for by the National Democratic Committee at so much a minute, and I want to get the full benefit of it.
Sentence 5: This reminds me of another meeting we had here in 1948.
Sentence 6: If I remember correctly, that was on the Saturday night before election, too.
Sentence 7: If I remember correctly, we had just such an enthusiastic audience as this right here.
Sentence 8: When we met here in 1948 the Democratic Party was on its way to victory.
Sentence 9: Tonight the Democratic Party is on its way to victory again.
Sentence 10: Here in Missouri we are going to elect Tom Hennings to the Senate; and we are going to send a Democratic delegation to the House of Representatives from Missouri.
Sentence 11: You know, I had hoped to make some speeches in this campaign of 1950.
Sentence 12: I believe the President and the Vice President have a special duty to report to all the people.
Sentence 13: They are the only officials who are elected by the whole country.
Sentence 14: But this year the critical international situation has made it impossible for me to go out and take part in this great debate that our Constitution provides for every 2 years.
Sentence 15: So I have had to leave my share of the campaigning to the other member of our team, Vice President Barkley.
Sentence 16: He has done a magnificent job.
Sentence 17: Alben Barkley is a great American who has fought all his life for the welfare of the people.
Sentence 18: This is my only opportunity to speak to the American people in this campaign.
Sentence 19: I intend to tell you exactly what the issues are in this election.
Sentence 20: [
At this point someone in the audience shouted, "Give 'em hell, Harry!"
Sentence 21: The President then resumed speaking.
Sentence 22: ]
I'm going to!
Sentence 23: I'm going to tell you the truth.
Sentence 24: The truth has been pressed to earth in this awful mudslinging campaign.
Sentence 25: But truth crushed to earth will rise again, and the people aren't going to be fooled by this mudslinging outfit.
Sentence 26: The Congress we elect next Tuesday will have to make decisions that will determine the kind of world we and our children are going to live in for years to come.
Sentence 27: It is difficult for us to realize the responsibilities of the Government of the United States in the world today.
Sentence 28: In one generation we have come from an isolated country-which considered itself entirely safe with an ocean on each side--to a position of world leadership.
Sentence 29: As the most powerful nation in the world, we have to assume world responsibilities-responsibilities that go with that great power.
Sentence 30: Since I became President in 1945, I have worked constantly for world peace.
Sentence 31: World peace is my greatest ambition.
Sentence 32: And, with God's help, I think we are making progress toward that goal.
Sentence 33: This Nation has never done anything more important for peace than it did this summer when we took the leadership in the United Nations to put down aggression in Korea.
Sentence 34: Even though some hard fighting still lies ahead, our men have already won a tremendous military victory in Korea.
Sentence 35: But they have done a great deal more than that.
Sentence 36: They have brought about a moral and spiritual revival among all men who seek freedom and peace.
Sentence 37: By their sacrifices, they have brought new life and strength to the United Nations.
Sentence 38: I believe that this is the greatest step toward world peace that has been taken in my lifetime--and I am 66 years old.
Sentence 39: I believe with all my heart that in this year of 1950 our Nation--the greatest Republic the sun has ever shone on--has taken the road the Lord meant us to take 30 years ago.
Sentence 40: In 1920 we took the wrong road--the road away from peace.
Sentence 41: That was when the isolationists kept us out of the League of Nations.
Sentence 42: But we are on the right road now--the road of cooperation between free nations.
Sentence 43: And we must stay on that road.
Sentence 44: I have tried my best to keep our national efforts for peace out of partisan politics.
Sentence 45: Some Republican leaders have joined with me in maintaining a bipartisan foreign policy.
Sentence 46: But other Republicans have tried to make foreign policy a partisan political issue.
Sentence 47: There are some isolationists running for office in this election--and one of them is right over here in Illinois.
Sentence 48: They have dragged our foreign policy into politics.
Sentence 49: They want us to shut ourselves off from the rest of the world and abandon our friends and our allies.
Sentence 50: [
At this point someone again shouted, "Give 'era hell, Harry!"
Sentence 51: The President then resumed speaking.
Sentence 52: ]
All right!
Sentence 53: I'm doing it!
Sentence 54: Any sensible man knows that such a course would be an open invitation for Communist imperialism to gobble up the rest of the world.
Sentence 55: Now, if that should happen, the United States would be left alone to face the threat of Communist aggression.
Sentence 56: And the forces of communism would have the manpower and resources of all of Europe, Asia, and Africa to use against us.
Sentence 57: That is the kind of disaster the isolationists would lead us into.
Sentence 58: A vote for isolationism in this election would be a vote for national suicide.
Sentence 59: This is the time to stand up and let the whole world know that we are going to stick to the other free nations in the struggle against communism.
Sentence 60: Now, isolationism is one of the main issues in this election.
Sentence 61: The other main issue is whether this country is going forward here at home toward greater strength and prosperity.
Sentence 62: Only if we are strong and prosperous at home, can we do our part to bring about world peace.
Sentence 63: During the last 17 years the Democratic Party has led this country to the greatest period of prosperity the world has even seen.
Sentence 64: The Republicans have fought us every step of the way.
Sentence 65: But we won those fights, and today the United States stands free and strong because we did win them.
Sentence 66: Take the case of the farmer.
Sentence 67: In 1932 the farmers of this country were just about flat on their backs.
Sentence 68: Corn was selling at 15 cents a bushel--and I sold some at that price--and cotton at 5 cents a pound.
Sentence 69: Farm mortgages were being foreclosed right and left, and farm families were being thrown off their land.
Sentence 70: The Republican Party either didn't know how to remedy this situation or it didn't care what happened to the farmers.
Sentence 71: The Democratic Party changed all that.
Sentence 72: We saved the farmer's.
Sentence 73: land and the farmer's home.
Sentence 74: We brought back good prices for farm products.
Sentence 75: Through rural electrification, we brought electric power to the farms and eased the burden of the farm wives.
Sentence 76: Then came the 1946 election, when twothirds of the people stayed at home and didn't vote.
Sentence 77: As a result we got that Republican no-good, do-nothing 80th Congress, about which I told you in 1948.
Sentence 78: Right away the Republicans began to tear down what we had done for the farmer.
Sentence 79: They cut the soil conservation program and tried to weaken the farmer committee system.
Sentence 80: They attacked the price support program.
Sentence 81: They cut down the authority of the Commodity Credit Corporation to store grain.
Sentence 82: In 1948, for this very reason, many farmers were forced to sell corn at 40 or 50 cents less than the support price.
Sentence 83: The people saw that the Republican Party hadn't changed a bit.
Sentence 84: It didn't care what happened to the farmer.
Sentence 85: So the people threw the Republican no-good, 80th Congress out.
Sentence 86: I might say the people kicked that no-good, do-nothing 80th Congress out of office, and I helped them to do it.
Sentence 87: The Democratic 81st Congress repaired the damage the Republicans had done.
Sentence 88: We restored the power of the Commodity Credit Corporation to store grain.
Sentence 89: We started a rural telephone program.
Sentence 90: We strengthened the soil conservation program and the price support program.
Sentence 91: Today farms and farm people are strong and prosperous.
Sentence 92: And because farmers are better off, why the whole country is better off.
Sentence 93: But the Republicans say: "Vote for us again.
Sentence 94: Vote us back in," they say.
Sentence 95: "Vote us back in so we can save you from this terrible Democratic farm program that has made you farmers so prosperous.
Sentence 96: "
I said in this hall in 1948 that any farmer who votes for the Republican Party is voting against his own interests--and he ought to have his head examined.
Sentence 97: That is just as true now as it was true then, and any farmer who does vote that way should and will have his head examined; you can be assured of that.
Sentence 98: Now the same thing is true of the workingman.
Sentence 99: In 1932 unemployment rose to more than 15 million.
Sentence 100: Wages were low.
Sentence 101: Labor was disorganized.
Sentence 102: The Democratic Party set out to help the workers.
Sentence 103: In spite of the bitterest kind of Republican opposition, the Democratic program went through.
Sentence 104: And as a result, the working people of this country got better wages, a higher standard of living, and social security.
Sentence 105: Then came along that no-good Republican 80th Congress again.
Sentence 106: And they started out to tear down the progress we had made.
Sentence 107: They took away social security from nearly a million people.
Sentence 108: They started to destroy the unions through the infamous Taft-Hartley law.
Sentence 109: They were on the way back to the conditions the special interests like--low wages, unemployment, weak unions.
Sentence 110: But the people found out what they were up to, and elected a Democratic Congress.
Sentence 111: And the Democratic 81st Congress set out to correct the damage the Republicans had done in their short 2 years.
Sentence 112: The 81st Congress raised the minimum wage from 40 cents an hour to 75 cents an hour.
Sentence 113: The 81st Congress put a stop to the Republican effort to undermine the labor unions.
Sentence 114: And just as sure as I am standing here, we are eventually going to get rid of the unionbusting provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act.
Sentence 115: The Democratic 81st Congress broadened social security to cover 10 million more people.
Sentence 116: We raised social security benefits by 77 percent.
Sentence 117: Today labor is a responsible and prosperous element in our community and our national life.
Sentence 118: And because workers are better off, the whole country is bound to be better off.
Sentence 119: Now the Republicans would like to get back in.
Sentence 120: I don't blame them for that.
Sentence 121: But what are they offering labor?
Sentence 122: Just to be frank with you, I don't know.
Sentence 123: I think they have about given up talking to the workingman.
Sentence 124: They know that no matter what they say, nobody is going to believe them--the Republican record on labor is as plain as the nose on your face; it's no good, just as their farm record is no good.
Sentence 125: Now I have got something most interesting to talk to you about.
Sentence 126: Let's take the Republican record on business.
Sentence 127: For a long time now the Republican Party has been claiming that it is good for business.
Sentence 128: There is no evidence to support this claim, however.
Sentence 129: I am getting sick and tired of it.
Sentence 130: The special interests are just as bad for business as they are for the rest of the country.
Sentence 131: Back in 1933, business turned to the Democratic Party and cried, "Save us!"
Sentence 132: And we did save them.
Sentence 133: In 1932 the corporations of this country were $3 billion in the red.
Sentence 134: They had $3 billion less than nothing, and they had to borrow money to pay it.
Sentence 135: Under the program of the Democratic Party, corporate profits had increased to $23 1/2 billion by 1946, which was $26 1/2 billions more than it was in 1932.
Sentence 136: Then along came the Republican no-good Both Congress and the special interests.
Sentence 137: And they tried to please the real estate lobby, and the oil lobby, and all the other lobbies.
Sentence 138: And they passed a rich man's tax bill.
Sentence 139: I vetoed that bill three times, and then went out and ran for office in 1948, and got elected because I did--the first time in history that a man ever vetoed a tax bill and got elected.
Sentence 140: By the end of the 80th Congress business was headed for trouble again, just as it always is when the special interests are in the saddle.
Sentence 141: The Democratic Party and the 81st Congress put a stop to that.
Sentence 142: We got the economy of the country back on the right track.
Sentence 143: And today business is better off than it ever was in the history of the country.
Sentence 144: The Democratic Party has been the salvation of free enterprise in this country, and don't let anybody tell you anything different.
Sentence 145: I ran across something in Time magazine--you know, Time magazine is not fond of the Democrats.
Sentence 146: And it was talking about a quotation from the Wall Street Journal, and it says:
"Under two waves of heavy selling in one day last week, the New York stock market suffered its worst drop in 15 weeks-- As usual, Wall Street had no explanation for the break, other than such old standbys as 'profit taking, the Korean situation, and fear of more taxes, etc.'
Sentence 147: But the Wall Street Journal made a valiant try to find something.
Sentence 148: The trouble was that business was too good--
Sentence 149: In short, there were so many good buys that investors simply couldn't make up their minds just how to spend their money"-which they had made under a Democratic administration.
Sentence 150: The story has been the same in every phase of our national life.
Sentence 151: The Republicans have fought every great progressive measure that has been adopted for the good of the people in the last 17 years.
Sentence 152: And they are just the same today as they always were.
Sentence 153: I am telling you they haven't changed a bit.
Sentence 154: Now the Republicans are facing an impossible task.
Sentence 155: They are trying to win an election with a record they are ashamed to admit, and a program they want to conceal--and I don't blame them for that.
Sentence 156: What the Republican leaders really want to do is put a stop to the New Deal and the Fair Deal.
Sentence 157: They want to turn the country over to the special interests to run as they please.
Sentence 158: But, of course, the Republicans don't dare tell the people that.
Sentence 159: So they have been trying to scare the people--to scare them so they will forget the terrible record of the Republican Party.
Sentence 160: As usual they are trying to scare us by saying that the country is on the brink of disaster--that the end is in sight.
Sentence 161: But nobody is going to fall for that line of tommyrot at a time when the country is more prosperous than it has ever been before and when 62 million men and women have jobs.
Sentence 162: As usual the Republicans are trying to scare us by saying that the country is on the last mile to socialism.
Sentence 163: Well, what a long last mile that must be.
Sentence 164: According to the Republicans we have been travelers for 12 years, and we haven't got there yet.
Sentence 165: Private corporation profits are now running at a rate of more than $40 billion a year, and there are more private business enterprises than ever before in the history of the country.
Sentence 166: Nobody but an office-hungry Republican politician would call that socialism.
Sentence 167: Now, some--some--I emphasize the some--some of the Republicans have now got so desperate they are saying that the Democratic Party is communistic.
Sentence 168: That is the craziest idea of all they have put out yet.
Sentence 169: It is our party--the Democratic Party-that has done more to defeat communism in this country than any group, public or private.
Sentence 170: It is our party--the Democratic Party-that saved free enterprise after 1932--when communism was feeding on the misery and despair created by 12 years of Republican misrule.
Sentence 171: It is the Democratic Party that has prosecuted communism under the law, and now has the Communist leaders on the way to jail.
Sentence 172: It is the Democratic Party and the Democratic administration that has strengthened and united the free nations of the world to stand up and fight against communism--to stand up and fight in Korea, and to win a smashing victory over Communist aggression.
Sentence 173: None of these plain facts has any effect on certain vote-hungry Republican politicians.
Sentence 174: They just go fight on with their campaign lies that have no foundation in fact.
Sentence 175: Of course, they don't believe it themselves.
Sentence 176: They are just trying to get votes.
Sentence 177: But this effort of theirs to get votes is being made at a terrible cost to the country.
Sentence 178: These Republican politicians have maliciously and falsely made charges of disloyalty against some of our finest and ablest public servants--in Congress and in the executive branch of the Government.
Sentence 179: These Republican politicians have been willing, in their desperate pursuit of this false issue, to undermine their own Government at a time of great national peril.
Sentence 180: They have been willing to destroy the United Nations.
Sentence 181: They have attacked the bipartisan foreign policy.
Sentence 182: They have lost all proportion, all sense of restraint, all sense of patriotic decency.
Sentence 183: I say to you--I want you to remember this--I say to you, and I say it emphatically, that politicians who are willing to do that-politicians who are willing even to condone such disgraceful acts--are not to be trusted with high public office.
Sentence 184: But, my friends, there are in the Republican Party many honorable men and women who oppose this shameful course.
Sentence 185: I honor them for that, and I will continue in the future as I have in the past to work with those Republicans who have the best interests of our country at heart.
Sentence 186: I honestly believe that the rank and file of the Republican Party must be ashamed of the reckless tactics of some of their leaders, and I believe they will repudiate them at the polls.
Sentence 187: The American people are not going to be fooled.
Sentence 188: The American people know the Republican Party has been taken over by the special interests.
Sentence 189: They know the Democrats are the party of the people.
Sentence 190: Now I promise you that the Democratic Party is going right on working for the people--for all the people.
Sentence 191: We are going right on working for farm prosperity--and for a system of marketing farm products that will stabilize farm income and give the consumers the benefit of abundant production, without waste.
Sentence 192: We are going right ahead working for a fair labor law.
Sentence 193: We are going right ahead working for better education and better health--including a workable health insurance system to help people pay their doctors' and hospital bills.
Sentence 194: We are going to work for these things for all our citizens, without discrimination on account of race, creed, or color.
Sentence 195: The American people will continue to move forward--a mighty force--toward peace and progress.
Sentence 196: No little group of special interests or selfish politicians is going to be able to stop us.
Sentence 197: This is a government for all the people, and we are going to keep it that way.
Sentence 198: Now, to do that, every citizen must do his part.
Sentence 199: And so I say to you tonight: go to the polls next Tuesday and vote.
Sentence 200: Vote for yourselves; vote for your future; vote for your children's future.
Sentence 201: Vote for progress and prosperity in the United States.
Sentence 202: Vote for peace throughout the whole world.
Sentence 203: Just go to the polls and vote the Democratic ticket.
