Sentence 1: 1950 Address Casper Wyoming

Governor Crane, Senator O'Mahoney, Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very great pleasure to be in Wyoming again.
Sentence 2: I was in Wyoming in 1948, but I didn't get as far as Casper.
Sentence 3: But I am starting out in Casper this time, so I wouldn't miss it.
Sentence 4: Seeing this western country and talking to the people out here always reaffirms my faith in the vigor of this Nation and the glowing promise of its future.
Sentence 5: This is my first visit to the West since 1948.
Sentence 6: And I am making these stops and this visit to report to you as President of the United States, and to let you know that I am just as interested in what you are thinking and what you are doing as I was when I was out here trying to get your votes.
Sentence 7: As you know, we have settled a number of issues since 1948.
Sentence 8: And we've settled them in the old-fashioned, American, democratic way.
Sentence 9: One of those issues is of particular importance here in the West.
Sentence 10: It concerns the policy this Nation is going to follow in developing the great wealth of natural resources.
Sentence 11: In this country, there have always been two philosophies about the use of natural resources.
Sentence 12: One philosophy is that our resources should be exploited by a privileged few for their own welfare and benefit.
Sentence 13: This first philosophy holds that if we preserve or develop natural resources for the benefit of all the people, that is "socialism," or some other kind of "ism."
The second philosophy holds that our natural resources are the cornerstone of a strong, free democracy.
Sentence 14: As such, they must be used to advance the well-being and the prosperity of all the people.
Sentence 15: This philosophy holds that it is necessary for democratic government to make sure that our land and water, our forests and our minerals, are used wisely, and not exploited for the benefit of just a few.
Sentence 16: You know which of these philosophies I believe in.
Sentence 17: It is the same one that the great majority of the American people believe in.
Sentence 18: I am happy to be able to say that since I was out here in 1948, we have been making progress in strengthening the policy of using our resources for the benefit of all the people.
Sentence 19: This Congress has been moving forward--not backward.
Sentence 20: I am particularly happy to have that to say to you here in Casper, Wyo. today.
Sentence 21: Wyoming is a state with tremendous natural resources.
Sentence 22: Here in Wyoming, the great plains of the West, with their abundant agricultural possibilities, rise to meet the high plateaus and mountains, rich in minerals and water power.
Sentence 23: Not so long ago this part of the country was considered "way out west."
Sentence 24: That phrase meant something more than physical distance.
Sentence 25: It expressed the attitude of too many people in important places in the East toward the real needs of this great region.
Sentence 26: This country "way out west" was a source of low-priced raw materials for the East.
Sentence 27: It was an area where eastern money could be invested for quick, spectacular profits.
Sentence 28: The real needs of this western country were not understood or appreciated.
Sentence 29: Because it was "way out west," too many people, both in and out of Government, just didn't care about the future of this part of the country.
Sentence 30: You know where that spendthrift, careless philosophy led us.
Sentence 31: Much of the best rangeland was badly damaged--some almost beyond recovery.
Sentence 32: Precious topsoils were washed down the rivers.
Sentence 33: The cream was skimmed off the mineral deposits.
Sentence 34: The primary emphasis was on quick exploitation of resources.
Sentence 35: The whole idea was to make money quickly and then move on.
Sentence 36: I am sure that you businessmen, farmers, and ranchers remember the tragic results of this philosophy.
Sentence 37: You are still fighting to recover from the loss and the waste of that era.
Sentence 38: But now the American people are with you.
Sentence 39: They have renounced the narrow, selfish view of the exploitation of natural resources.
Sentence 40: For 17 years, with one brief setback--and I told you about that setback in 1948--you had a Government that recognizes its responsibility for helping to preserve and develop natural resources.
Sentence 41: This is a government that works with you, not against you.
Sentence 42: The contrast between the enlightened, democratic approach to the use of our natural resources, and the selfish, antidemocratic approach, is plain here in Wyoming.
Sentence 43: About 50 miles north of Casper lies Teapot Dome.
Sentence 44: About 50 miles southwest is the new Kortes Dam.
Sentence 45: I met Mr. Kortes this morning for the first time.
Sentence 46: I met his son.
Sentence 47: That is a remarkable family, a most remarkable family.
Sentence 48: They have made a great contribution to this great State of Wyoming, and it is an example which a great many of us could follow to our advantage.
Sentence 49: The name Teapot Dome stands as an everlasting symbol of the greed and privilege that underlay one philosophy about the West.
Sentence 50: It is not only a reminder that there were selfish or misguided individuals seeking special privileges.
Sentence 51: There are always such individuals.
Sentence 52: They are in every generation.
Sentence 53: It is also a reminder of what can happen in your own front yard when you have the wrong kind of government in Washington.
Sentence 54: Kortes Dam is a product of a different philosophy about resources, and a different kind of government.
Sentence 55: High up in a mountain canyon on the North Platte River, this dam is a new source of wealth and strength for the people of the West.
Sentence 56: This is an example of the right way to use natural resources--for the benefit of all the people.
Sentence 57: When the Kortes power plant goes into operation this year, its three turbines will add 36,000 kilowatts of electricity to our national store of energy.
Sentence 58: It will be tied into a network of transmission lines, and teamed up with the plant at Seminoe Dam 2 miles upstream and with other plants downstream.
Sentence 59: This development will bring light and power to thousands of homes, farms, and industries in Wyoming, Colorado, and Nebraska.
Sentence 60: Furthermore, Kortes Dam is a part of the reclamation work of the Federal Government.
Sentence 61: This dam is built as part of a project which will bring more water to irrigated lands.
Sentence 62: The income from the power produced at Kortes will help repay the investment in the irrigation work.
Sentence 63: The completion of Kortes Dam is thus a step toward developing natural resources for the welfare of the people.
Sentence 64: But this dam has another significance.
Sentence 65: It is based on a recognition of the fact that water and land and forests must be treated together.
Sentence 66: We can make proper use of our resources only if we base our plans upon that fact.
Sentence 67: Like many of you here today, I was born and raised in the Missouri Valley--a little farther down in the Missouri Valley, but still in the Missouri Valley.
Sentence 68: Like you, I have seen at first hand the terrible effects of looking at resources separately.
Sentence 69: When too much sod on the plains was broken to plant crops, when the rangeland was overgrazed, the result was not only a loss of grassland and soil cover.
Sentence 70: The result was floods, and dust storms, and a heritage of waste that has had to be slowly and painfully overcome.
Sentence 71: Today we know that soil and forest conservation, flood control and the development of power, navigation, and irrigation, must all be tackled and solved together.
Sentence 72: We have learned that a great river valley cannot be developed in piecemeal fashion.
Sentence 73: It is not possible to separate the land from the water.
Sentence 74: It is foolish to prepare for floods downstream but to pay no attention to soil cover and small creeks upstream.
Sentence 75: It has taken years for us to organize our efforts in line with this concept of the interrelationship of all resources.
Sentence 76: We have met great opposition from selfish or shortsighted people--although I am glad to say that many have gradually been converted to the fight viewpoint as the soundness of what we are trying to do has been demonstrated.
Sentence 77: We still have further to go.
Sentence 78: But the progress we have made in the last 17 years is tremendous.
Sentence 79: Here in the Missouri Valley, which covers one-sixth of the whole country, work is going forward to develop the land, water, and forests.
Sentence 80: We have embarked on these enterprises in the best democratic tradition.
Sentence 81: Our success has been possible because of private initiative, coupled with cooperative work by the Federal, State and local governments.
Sentence 82: You can see the results of this all about you.
Sentence 83: The city of Casper lies in the midst of an area containing about a half a million acres of irrigated land.
Sentence 84: Private enterprise and local, State, and Federal governments are all playing a part in making irrigation farming more secure and more productive.
Sentence 85: Not the least part of the success of irrigation farming is due to the national investment in irrigation and the power facilities by the Federal Government.
Sentence 86: There are a lot of people who oppose that.
Sentence 87: There are a lot of people who hate like everything to see those developments made, and I want to say to you that if we hadn't made some of these great developments in the Tennessee Valley, and the Columbia Valley, and other places in this great Nation, we would have had a hard time winning the war.
Sentence 88: Those power developments helped us to win the war more quickly.
Sentence 89: That investment is good for the farmer, and it means a more stable economy for the people in town.
Sentence 90: For the Nation as a whole, the investment in sound reclamation work is a 'part of our broad effort to create a growing economy.
Sentence 91: Here in the western part of the Missouri Valley, we have also been working to conserve and improve range lands.
Sentence 92: For the long-run success of livestock ranchers, a well-grassed and a well-watered range is absolutely essential.
Sentence 93: Before 1934 almost nothing had been done to create that kind of range.
Sentence 94: Since then, much has been done on both private and public lands.
Sentence 95: We have found better grasses to provide improved cover and more profitable grazing.
Sentence 96: We have learned to build small ponds and reservoirs, as a defense against drought.
Sentence 97: Right here in Natrona County, within the past 10 years, 2,000 stock water ponds have been built.
Sentence 98: With more watering places, cattle and sheep can spread out over the range instead of overgrazing some parts and letting the good grass go to waste in other parts.
Sentence 99: In ancient times the Mesopotamian valley, one of the richest in the history of the world, was ruined by overgrazing.
Sentence 100: It was also ruined by useless washings and things of that sort, but overgrazing contributed to the ruination of that wonderful valley.
Sentence 101: This range improvement work means a more productive and secure livestock industry.
Sentence 102: It is important also in another way.
Sentence 103: Poor management of rangelands contributes to floods and allows silt to go down the rivers to fill up the power and irrigation reservoirs.
Sentence 104: Good management of rangelands prevents erosion, helps to hold back floods, and protects our investment in reservoirs.
Sentence 105: These upper States in the Mississippi Valley have made a great contribution to the land holdings of the States at the mouth of the Mississippi Valley.
Sentence 106: We actually ought to lay claim to the southern counties on the Mississippi because all the soil came from up here.
Sentence 107: We should be proud of the work we have been doing--on the rangelands, in irrigation, in power development, and all the other parts of our resource work.
Sentence 108: Green fields, blue reservoirs, clear streams, and the shining new transmission lines tell the advance we have made.
Sentence 109: In the development and use of our resources, however, some of the most challenging tasks still lie ahead.
Sentence 110: There are a lot of things to do.
Sentence 111: We need to put more of our land under good conservation practices.
Sentence 112: We need to build more ponds and reservoirs on the ranges, and dikes to spread water more evenly over the land.
Sentence 113: Millions of acres need reseeding.
Sentence 114: We are far from a balanced range program.
Sentence 115: Through the agricultural conservation program, we are making a national investment on private rangelands which is considerably larger per acre than the amount the Government is spending on public rangelands.
Sentence 116: Incidentally, the amount we are spending on public rangelands is less than one cent per acre per year.
Sentence 117: Another field in which greater effort is needed is the control of insect pests.
Sentence 118: Here in Wyoming, I am told, there is a serious plague of grasshoppers.
Sentence 119: I can remember it now, as a little boy, my mother telling me about the grasshoppers in Missouri when they ate up everything, even the pitchfork handles.
Sentence 120: The Federal Government should bear its full share of the cost of overcoming this plague through the excellent Federal-State cooperative program that has been worked out.
Sentence 121: In the forests we need to build more roads, so that we can reach the timber and use it.
Sentence 122: Along the rivers, we need more sound irrigation projects.
Sentence 123: In addition, we need other works to control and use the waters of the rivers--from the small creeks and tributaries in the mountains all the way down to the mouths of the main streams.
Sentence 124: Minerals must be conserved, too, in the sense that we must take out of the ground all that can economically be extracted, and must increase our exploration for new sources.
Sentence 125: Furthermore, we need to go ahead rapidly to conserve our limited water supplies.
Sentence 126: Out here in the West, water has always been relatively scarce.
Sentence 127: And as more and more water is put to beneficial use, it is becoming more and more necessary to conserve every drop.
Sentence 128: Even in the East, it is becoming obvious that more needs to be done to assure an adequate supply of good water.
Sentence 129: The water problem is not only serious for farmers and for cities and towns.
Sentence 130: In many parts of the country it is also a serious problem for industries.
Sentence 131: For example, down south of here in Colorado there are huge reserves of oil shale.
Sentence 132: In the years to come, we may well need to obtain oil from that shale.
Sentence 133: It will take a lot of water to do that, however, and there is a real question whether there is enough water for that purpose.
Sentence 134: This whole problem of limited water supplies and growing water uses, is the reason I appointed a Water Resources Policy Commission earlier this year.
Sentence 135: I asked some of the best experts I could find to serve on that Commission, including several from the Western States.
Sentence 136: They are making a thorough study of the facts, and should give us some sound recommendations for our future progress.
Sentence 137: Now it is a pitiful thing, that three-quarters of the earth's surface is covered with water, and yet some of the finest land in the world cannot be productive because there is no water to go on it to make things grow.
Sentence 138: There are places in this United States that have thousands of square miles of the richest land in the world, yet it can't be used.
Sentence 139: Now, this water survey commission of mine is going to try to work out a plan.
Sentence 140: You see, New York is short of water, believe it or not.
Sentence 141: Eastern Texas is short of water, Beaumont, Tex., is short of water, Los Angeles is short of water.
Sentence 142: There are lots of places short of water, as well as in the reclamation districts, so it is a national problem, which we are going to try to solve.
Sentence 143: I don't know whether we can do it or not, but we can't be charged with neglect if we try.
Sentence 144: As we move forward in our use of resources, we must improve the organization of the Federal Government so that its part of the development job can be done better and with more effective participation by State and local governments.
Sentence 145: There are still reactionary forces that oppose every forward-looking proposal to develop the resources and increase the prosperity of the West.
Sentence 146: That philosophy produced Teapot Dome, and that philosophy is not dead yet, by any means.
Sentence 147: But these reactionary forces are fighting a losing battle.
Sentence 148: We have been overcoming their opposition for 17 years.
Sentence 149: And we are going right on beating them--and I mean that.
Sentence 150: Those who are opposing us now are the same ones who said the soil conservation program would regiment the American farmer.
Sentence 151: A few years back, they asserted that it was socialism for the Government to lend money to farmers to build rural electric lines.
Sentence 152: They claimed it was a boondoggle to plant shelter belts of trees on the plains.
Sentence 153: Now, they're for those things.
Sentence 154: They admit that these programs have been good for the country.
Sentence 155: All they want to do now is to prevent any further progress!
Sentence 156: They are not going to get away with it!
Sentence 157: But their past record is clear and plain.
Sentence 158: And their new arguments are no better than their old ones were.
Sentence 159: The American people will continue to go right ahead, taking the practical, sensible steps that are needed to build a better future.
Sentence 160: We are a strong, free people.
Sentence 161: We know that to continue free and strong, we must wisely develop and use the resources with which nature has endowed us.
Sentence 162: The money we spend for effective conservation work is a sound investment in better living for ourselves and our children.
Sentence 163: We will not be dismayed by those who say the cost of such investments is too great.
Sentence 164: The cost of not making them would be far greater.
Sentence 165: We cannot afford to slacken our efforts, for this is work which is vital to our future.
Sentence 166: Today, more than ever before, we can see how important it is to take these steps to develop our resources.
Sentence 167: We are engaged in a worldwide struggle to bring lasting peace to the world.
Sentence 168: In that struggle we are being opposed by a cynical imperialism which asserts that freedom and democracy are soft and incapable of strong action.
Sentence 169: We can prove how false, how hollow, are the claims of communism.
Sentence 170: But we can prove that only by deeds.
Sentence 171: We must demonstrate that our free country, along with other free countries, can achieve strength, prosperity, and growing welfare for all our people.
Sentence 172: To do so, we must continue to move forward in our use of natural resources.
Sentence 173: We must not permit any backsliding toward the old philosophy of private greed and the public be damned.
Sentence 174: We must continue to look upon our resources as a public trust, to be preserved and increased as the physical basis for a growing future.
Sentence 175: In the tremendous conflict that exists in the world today, our fundamental strength is our belief in the worth of the individual, under God.
Sentence 176: Our whole democratic tradition rests on our faith that free men, working together in cooperation, can achieve justice and well-being for themselves and for one another.
Sentence 177: In that faith, we shall move forward on the path of freedom and peace.
