Sentence 1: 1950 The Presidents News Conference 577

THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 2: Please be seated.
Sentence 3: I have no special announcements to make, ladies and gentlemen, but I will try to answer questions, if they are not too complicated.
Sentence 4: [1.]
Sentence 5: Q. Mr. President, Representative Tauriello of New York yesterday said that Secretary Johnson had lost the confidence of the people of the country.
Sentence 6: What do you think of the statement?
Sentence 7: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 8: I have no comment on it.
Sentence 9: Q. Mr. President, to put the question another way, following up Secretary Johnson's letter,
1
have you been embarrassed by him?
Sentence 10: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 11: No.
Sentence 12: If I had been embarrassed, everybody would have found it out because I would have announced it.
Sentence 13: 1
On August 23 Representative Anthony F. Tauriello of New York wrote to the Secretary of Defense demanding his resignation.
Sentence 14: On August 30 Secretary Louis Johnson replied in the form of a statement reviewing his stewardship as Secretary of Defense.
Sentence 15: [2.]
Sentence 16: Q. Mr. President, this is rather a complicated question.
Sentence 17: I had in mind the fact that it is a little over 19 months since you first announced the point 4 program, since which there has been a great deal of discussion and some legislation.
Sentence 18: I wonder if you would care now to indicate your general thought about that program, and your hopes for its realization?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 19: Well, of course I hope for its realization, and I have made it as strongly apparent to the Congress that I hope for its realization.
Sentence 20: And if sometime or other we can get that 36-inch globe--or 30-inch globe--I have over at the office up here, I will give you a dissertation on it that will show you just how simple and how easy it would be to put it into effect, and how much good it would do us, and the rest of the world.
Sentence 21: Q.
Sentence 22: That was what I had at the back of my complicated question.
Sentence 23: In your own mind the underdeveloped areas are relatively apparent--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 24: Oh yes.
Sentence 25: It is not necessarily underdeveloped areas, it is the development of areas that will support more populations, raise more food, and cause a demand for our own products, and at the same time raise the standard of living of millions and millions of people--which is exactly what keeps peace in the world.
Sentence 26: It would be the best guarantee of world peace that we could possibly put out, and it wouldn't, in the long run, cost us anything except the technical help which we would be furnishing.
Sentence 27: [3.]
Sentence 28: Q. Mr. President, Senator Lucas says the statehood bill would not be taken up this year.
Sentence 29: Have you any comment?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 30: I am very sorry to hear it, because I am anxious for Alaska and Hawaii to be made States in the Union for national defense purposes principally.
Sentence 31: I want somebody down there fighting all the time for their proper development and defense.
Sentence 32: Never get that until they get a couple of Senators in the Senate and some Representatives in the House.
Sentence 33: [4.]
Sentence 34: Q. Mr. President, in New York the longshoremen are refusing to unload ships that are coming from Russia and satellite countries, and some of those who are affected--importers--are claiming that this would amount to setting foreign policy--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 35: That is exactly right, and they haven't any business doing a trick like that.
Sentence 36: The foreign policy is not made by any longshoreman's union.
Sentence 37: Q. Are you planning to intercede in any way, or have Mr. Steelman intervene--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 38: What intercession can I make?
Sentence 39: Q. To prevail upon the union, perhaps?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 40: Well, we will take care of the situation if it gets bad enough.
Sentence 41: [5.]
Sentence 42: Q. Mr. President, some of the Congressmen up on Capitol Hill were very talkative today about the decentralization program.
Sentence 43: They don't think that this is real decentralization, they think the Government agencies should be dispersed farther from Washington.
Sentence 44: Would you care to say something about that ?
Sentence 45: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 46: Well, I don't think there is very much comment I can make on that.
Sentence 47: This is merely the beginning of a plan which has been under consideration for a long time.
Sentence 48: Of course, I can understand the attitude of some of the Congressmen, they would like to have these things moved into certain other cities--and that is not the objective at all.
Sentence 49: [6.]
Sentence 50: Q. Mr. President, concerning imports and exports, there has been a good deal of congressional criticism in the past few days, sir, reflecting the speech by Winston Churchill,
2
and an incident or two concerning what is called lax export control here--a lot of strategic things that are going to Russia.
Sentence 51: Do you feel our controls are lax and--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 52: No, they are not.
Sentence 53: Our controls are not lax at all.
Sentence 54: We have been trying to get the other countries to tighten up as tightly as we have been doing, and then we wouldn't have any trouble.
Sentence 55: 2
In a speech on August 26 Winston S. Churchill, then British opposition leader, speaking from his country home at Westerham in Kent, stated that the British should stop selling machine tools and diesel engines to Russia and her satellites.
Sentence 56: He also spoke out against the presence of Soviet "inspectors" inside factories where production of a secret nature was underway.
Sentence 57: He was referring to work being done in British factories for the Soviet Union.
Sentence 58: The orders were placed under the British-Russian trade agreement of 1948.
Sentence 59: [7.]
Sentence 60: Q. Mr. President, in your message to General MacArthur the other day,
3
you told of getting reports from Admiral Sherman and General Collins on Korea.
Sentence 61: You said you were gratified by the report.
Sentence 62: Now, I wondered if there was some good news there that you could share with the people?
Sentence 63: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 64: I am not in a position to comment on that today.
Sentence 65: I am sorry, I can't.
Sentence 66: 3 See Item 226.
Sentence 67: Q. Mr. President, will the allied forces stop at the 38th parallel?
Sentence 68: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 69: I can't answer that question.
Sentence 70: Q. Mr. President, how great do you regard the danger of Red China becoming involved in the action in Korea ?
Sentence 71: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 72: I hope that there is no great danger that Red China will become involved in this United Nations approach to establishing peace in Korea.
Sentence 73: Q. Mr. President, in your letter to Ambassador Austin on Sunday,
4
you gave as one of the reasons for neutralizing Formosa the fact that the conflict between the Chinese Communists and the Chinese Nationalists might threaten the security of the United Nations forces operating in Korea, or even result in the extension of the Korean war to the Pacific area.
Sentence 74: Does that mean that when peace and security are restored to the Korean area, then the United States 7th Fleet would be withdrawn from the Formosan--
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 75: The Formosan situation as set out in my various messages is one for settlement--in the Japanese peace treaty with the allies who fought in the Japanese war and with those occupation forces--by those nations that have occupying forces in Japan now.
Sentence 76: Of course, it will not be necessary to keep the 7th Fleet in the Formosa Strait if the Korean thing is settled.
Sentence 77: That is a flank protection on our part for the United Nations forces.
Sentence 78: 4
See Item 223.
Sentence 79: [8.]
Sentence 80: Q. Mr. President, would you favor changing the present wiretapping law to make wiretapping illegal as it stands, regardless of divulging--
THE PRESIDENT. ]
Sentence 81: can't comment upon that now.
Sentence 82: When that matter is put before me, then I will pass on it.
Sentence 83: I can't comment on it now, because I have no idea of what sort of legislation will be before me.
Sentence 84: [9.]
Sentence 85: Q. Mr. President, is there any significance in the fact that the Attorney General is here ?
Sentence 86: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 87: The Attorney General is a visitor.
Sentence 88: He has never seen a press conference in this new hall of ours, and he wanted to see whether it was successful here or not.
Sentence 89: [Laughter]
Sentence 90: [10.]
Sentence 91: Q. Mr. President, did Secretary Johnson discuss anything about the wool shortage situation with you Tuesday?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 92: No.
Sentence 93: It has been discussed with me, however, time and time again, but he did not discuss it with me Tuesday.
Sentence 94: [11.]
Sentence 95: Q. Mr. President, have you anything further to say about General MacArthur's views on Formosa and what should be done about it?
Sentence 96: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 97: The MacArthur incident is a closed incident.
Sentence 98: [12.]
Sentence 99: Q. Mr. President, if the North Atlantic Pact countries do not increase their defense efforts, will you be called on to ask for more funds for them?
Sentence 100: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 101: I can't answer a question like that because they are all making efforts to increase their defense efforts, and I think they are going to do it.
Sentence 102: Q. Are the efforts satisfactory?
Sentence 103: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 104: They are hoped to be satisfactory, when they are finished.
Sentence 105: I can't comment on it because they are only in the preliminary stages.
Sentence 106: It wouldn't be fair to those countries for me to stand up here and tell them what they ought to do.
Sentence 107: That's their business.
Sentence 108: [13.]
Sentence 109: Q. Mr. President, just to clarify my lead on Secretary Johnson, you don't contemplate any change in the Defense Secretary?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 110: No.
Sentence 111: [14.]
Sentence 112: Q. Mr. President, do you have any views as to how the ECA Administrator should administer the Spanish loan, if it remains in the omnibus appropriation bill?
Sentence 113: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 114: I will answer that question when we come to the implementation of the Spanish loan.
Sentence 115: [15.]
Sentence 116: Q. Mr. President, along the line of the previous question, it is suggested that we increase our garrison forces in West Germany until they can get some muscle in there.
Sentence 117: Have you any idea of increasing the present occupation forces?
THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 118: Not at the present time.
Sentence 119: [16.]
Sentence 120: Q. Mr. President, do you care to make any predictions about the November elections?
Sentence 121: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 122: I am not a columnist nor a pollster, so I can't very well do it.
Sentence 123: [Laughter]
Reporter:
Sentence 124: Thank you, Mr. President.
Sentence 125: THE PRESIDENT.
Sentence 126: You're welcome.
