Sentence 1: 1950 Rear Platform Remarks Wyoming
Sentence 2: [1.]
Sentence 3: WENDOVER, WYOMING (12:27 p.m.)
Sentence 4: I am going to tell you a story about Wyoming.
Sentence 5: I had a most wonderful meeting in Casper this morning.
Sentence 6: Your Governor was there as host for the State of Wyoming.
Sentence 7: My good friend Joe O'Mahoney introduced me.
Sentence 8: Joe is one of the real Senators, who knows what it's all about.
Sentence 9: It was a pleasure for me to have him introduce me.
Sentence 10: I served in the Senate for a long time with Joe, and I know him.
Sentence 11: He's all right.
Sentence 12: It is always good to come back out West, especially at this time of year.
Sentence 13: One reason I like Wyoming is the fact that you have a long tradition of really forward-looking, progressive legislation.
Sentence 14: Wyoming, as you certainly know, was the first State to give women the right to vote.
Sentence 15: And you had a woman Governor, who now runs the Mint of the United States; and every time I see her--and she is on this train--
Sentence 16: I ask her if she brought me a bag full of money.
Sentence 17: She never has.
Sentence 18: Can you imagine what some of the stuffy reactionary easterners had to say about the fact that you had woman suffrage out here?
Sentence 19: Listen--listen to this--you will like this-you will want to remember it.
Sentence 20: The editor of a prominent magazine published in New York said about Wyoming, when you gave women the right to vote--now this is a quote: "This unblushing female socialism defies alike the apostles and prophets."
Sentence 21: The editor said, "Nothing could be more antibiblical than letting women vote.
Sentence 22: "
So you see that the cry of socialism is as old as the hills.
Sentence 23: They used it against woman suffrage, against the Federal Reserve Act, against social security, and they are trying to use it again today, but I know you are not going to let them fool you, any more than they fooled you when the State of Wyoming brought about woman suffrage as a pioneer in the United States.
Sentence 24: Now every woman in every State can vote, and the country is much better off for that reason.
Sentence 25: But the old fogies didn't think so, and there are still old fogies whenever you start anything new, I don't care what it is.
Sentence 26: You will find some people who think we had better stay with things as they are.
Sentence 27: Just a few days ago, I have been having press conferences in my office, and it is an oval room--it is kind of circular, and it is stuffy and you can't hear; and when you get in two or three hundred men in there, the fellows in the back row can't see me and they can't hear what is going on.
Sentence 28: So I decided to set up a place to hold press conferences where all the boys could sit down and make their notes, and they could see me and they could hear what I had to say, and I could find out who was asking the question.
Sentence 29: And you know--some of them were just exactly like the old fogies who were opposed to woman suffrage, they didn't want to do it, they said it wasn't any good.
Sentence 30: Well, we tried it twice, and I don't think they will want to change back.
Sentence 31: So progress has to be made by people who can see forward, who can look forward and see what the results can be if some slight change is made in the status quo.
Sentence 32: That is what the people who are looking forward to the welfare of the United States stand for.
Sentence 33: And I am out here, going across the United States-and I will go almost all the way across from Washington to Grand Coulee Dam and back again--trying to tell the people that I believe in change when it is for the welfare of all the people.
Sentence 34: I am going to keep right on working for better houses, better schools, a better educational program, better labor and social security laws, and I don't intend to be scared away by anybody who calls that program socialism.
Sentence 35: I always look back and think that what I am trying to do is no more socialistic than was woman suffrage in Wyoming when you passed it.
Sentence 36: Thank you very much.
Sentence 37: [2.] CHEYENNE, WYOMING (Address, 4:15 p.m.,
see Item 118
.)
Sentence 38: [3.] LARAMIE, WYOMING (Address, 7 p.m.,
see Item 119
.)
Sentence 39: [4.] RAWLINS, WYOMING (9:48 p.m.)
Thank you very much.
Sentence 40: I have always enjoyed my visits to this section of the country.
Sentence 41: I have had a wonderful day today.
Sentence 42: I started in Casper, Wendover, Cheyenne, and Laramie.
Sentence 43: The Governor of Wyoming and Senator O'Mahoney met me in Casper, and I was highly pleased and gratified that those two gentlemen were there.
Sentence 44: I have had a great day.
Sentence 45: I like your scenery.
Sentence 46: I appreciate your hospitality more than I do your scenery.
Sentence 47: I was in Rawlins 2 years ago, late on Sunday evening, and I am glad to be back again.
Sentence 48: At that time I could not make you a speech because it was Sunday.
Sentence 49: I am sorry I will not be able to visit your great project to the northeast, the Kortes Dam, which we dedicated this morning in Casper.
Sentence 50: The people of Carbon County have reason to be proud of this dam.
Sentence 51: Kortes and Seminoe Dams will soon be furnishing power to this whole section--enough power for real industrial expansion.
Sentence 52: Of course, these dams won't benefit just industry, they will help everybody--those of you in cities, and those of you who live on ranches.
Sentence 53: For a long time this State has been great livestock country.
Sentence 54: It produces an important part of the Nation's supply of meat, wool, and leather.
Sentence 55: And I have an idea that your livestock industry is going to be even more important in the future than it has been in the past.
Sentence 56: We had steaks tonight for dinner, and the Senator assured me that they were Wyoming steaks.
Sentence 57: I think they came from Kansas City.
Sentence 58: Compared with the people of other countries, we Americans have good diets.
Sentence 59: But there is still room for improvement.
Sentence 60: The main thing we need for that purpose is more livestock products.
Sentence 61: I am confident that the farmers and ranchers of Wyoming want to produce the abundance of livestock that we need.
Sentence 62: That is evident not only from the emphasis on sheep and cattle that has been traditional out here, but also from your progress in water and range conservation.
Sentence 63: Now I started yesterday at Lincoln, Nebr., on what I think is an economic program for this section of the country, from the Appalachian Mountains to the Pacific coast; and if you will pay close attention to the speeches which I delivered across the great State of Iowa and in Lincoln, Nebr., and this morning in Casper and Cheyenne, and at Laramie tonight, you will find just exactly what I think is necessary to continue this country as the greatest Republic in the history of the world.
Sentence 64: You people in this area naturally have a particular interest in sheep and wool.
Sentence 65: In wool production, Wyoming ranks at or very near the top among the 48 States.
Sentence 66: I know that when the war came along, you had a terrific wool problem.
Sentence 67: You were helped out of that situation by the Government purchase program for wool.
Sentence 68: If you will think back, you will remember that in those days wool growers had virtually nobody except the Government to sell to.
Sentence 69: The Government-owned stocks of wool are now down to about 20 million pounds.
Sentence 70: Three years ago they totaled more than 500 million pounds.
Sentence 71: Now I want to point out that these stocks were disposed of in trade channels and in such a way as to protect domestic wool prices.
Sentence 72: Last year, the Congress passed new legislation that strengthened the wool program.
Sentence 73: Under this program, we have set the support level for wool at the maximum, 90 percent of parity.
Sentence 74: We are going to keep on making whatever efforts are necessary to give the wool growers of this country a really workable program.
Sentence 75: This is part of our objective to build a strong and prosperous United States of America, so that we can preserve our own freedom and help to strengthen the cause of freedom all over the world.
Sentence 76: It has been a real pleasure to visit with you here in Rawlins, and I hope to come back before very long on a political trip.
Sentence 77: This is a nonpolitical trip.
