Sentence 1: 1950
Sentence 2: Address Butte Montana

THANK YOU very much.
Sentence 3: I appreciate that introduction very, very much.
Sentence 4: It is a pleasure to be here in Butte.
Sentence 5: I can remember, not quite 2 years ago, you gave me a grand reception.
Sentence 6: I drove through the town at that time, for I had a little more time, and I remember the grand performance which this wonderful band of yours put on for us that night.
Sentence 7: I will never forget it.
Sentence 8: I remember that I was told by the then mayor of Butte that there were more people at the meeting than lived in the town.
Sentence 9: And I asked him how that happened, and he said, "Oh, they come from 50 miles around, they just want to see what you look like.
Sentence 10: "
It looks to me like you not only want to see what I look like, but you want to understand what he stands for, and I appreciate it.
Sentence 11: I thank you most cordially, Mr. Mayor, for the welcome this morning.
Sentence 12: I am very highly pleased with the way you have come to hear the report I have to make.
Sentence 13: I came to the Pacific Northwest to dedicate Grand Coulee Dam.
Sentence 14: That dam is one of the most remarkable engineering feats ever accomplished.
Sentence 15: More electric power is generated there than in any other plant in the world.
Sentence 16: It will bring immense benefits to the people in the region that it serves and to our whole Nation.
Sentence 17: It is an outstanding example of how we can use our Federal power and our Federal Government to perform tasks that are so big they are beyond the power of any other agency through which the people can act.
Sentence 18: This trip is giving me an opportunity to report to the people about their Federal Government.
Sentence 19: It is your Government.
Sentence 20: Every year the President reports to the Congress on the state of the Union.
Sentence 21: That is a good thing.
Sentence 22: But it seems to me that it is just as important for the President to report directly to the people who elected him.
Sentence 23: And that is what I am doing now.
Sentence 24: In our democracy the Government is responsible to the people, and they are entitled to know just what the Government is doing.
Sentence 25: I find that one of the best ways for me to report to you is to come out here where I can talk to you face to face.
Sentence 26: And where I can say in clear, plain English that we all understand, just exactly what I am doing, and it can't be garbled by anybody.
Sentence 27: I understand that some people have objected to my doing that.
Sentence 28: They give all sorts of reasons for their objections, but I think the real reason is that they are afraid the people might like it too well when the President comes out to see them.
Sentence 29: And I think that is exactly what is the matter with them.
Sentence 30: Today, I want to report to you on some of the Government's activities and programs that are of particular interest to working men and women.
Sentence 31: But, first, I want to remind you that the welfare of all groups of the population is inseparable.
Sentence 32: Workers, businessmen, and farmers all depend upon one another-they all prosper together or they all suffer together.
Sentence 33: I understand that you have had a clear demonstration of that fact here in Butte within recent months.
Sentence 34: This city depends very largely upon the production of copper.
Sentence 35: When the demand for copper fell off last year, it affected the Anaconda Copper Company.
Sentence 36: But the results didn't stop there.
Sentence 37: The men who worked for the company were also affected.
Sentence 38: There were layoffs in the mines and smelters.
Sentence 39: Well now, things are looking up again.
Sentence 40: The market for copper has improved.
Sentence 41: The company's business is better again, and the men who had been laid off have been put back to work.
Sentence 42: In fact, I saw where someone was advertising in a Colorado paper the other day to get more hard-rock miners to come up here to work.
Sentence 43: And I have got a copy of that advertisement, and it is right interesting: "One hundred hard-rock miners wanted in Butte, Mont. Apply Colorado State Employment Service.
Sentence 44: The company recruiter will show you what to do and where to go.
Sentence 45: Anaconda Copper Company.
Sentence 46: "
I am mighty glad to hear that there are jobs for people in Butte, and I hope it will always be that way.
Sentence 47: However, you cannot be prosperous here unless the rest of the country is prosperous.
Sentence 48: Your jobs and the company's profits depend on what people are able to buy in New York, in Georgia, in Texas, and all over this great country of ours.
Sentence 49: You have a vital and direct interest in the economic welfare of the entire Nation, and therefore have an equal interest in what the Government does to maintain the economic welfare of the Nation.
Sentence 50: The Federal Government has always taken a hand in the country's economic affairs.
Sentence 51: Indeed, one of the purposes for which our Union was formed was to promote trade and commerce among the several States.
Sentence 52: Some people seem to forget that sometimes, but it is just as true now as it was when the Constitution was ratified.
Sentence 53: During the last 17 years, however, the Government has played a larger part in our economic life than ever before.
Sentence 54: There is a reason for this, and one that is not hard to find.
Sentence 55: The reason is the great depression of the early 1930's--and the lessons we have learned from that depression and from the events since then.
Sentence 56: We have learned that in a dynamic, highly industrialized economy such as ours, the Federal Government must use its strength and resources to prevent violent cycles of boom and bust.
Sentence 57: We learned during the period from 1929 to 1933 what happens if the Government stands on the sidelines-with men in high places merely smiling cheerfully and saying that everything is going to be all right.
Sentence 58: We have learned since 1933 that a government which takes positive action can supplement and support the efforts of private business in such a way as to keep our economy steadily expanding.
Sentence 59: These lessons have been hard for some people to take.
Sentence 60: In fact, they deny them still.
Sentence 61: All of you, I am sure, have heard many cries about the Government interference with business and about "creeping socialism.
Sentence 62: "
I should like to remind the gentlemen who make these complaints that if events had been allowed to continue as they were going prior to March 4, 1933, most of them would have no business left for the Government or anyone else to interfere with--and almost surely we would have socialism in this country, real socialism, not the kind they define.
Sentence 63: The truth is that Government action during the last 17 years has been the salvation of private business in this country and has strengthened the private enterprise system against socialism, communism, and all the rest of the "isms."
Don't let anyone tell you that the Government should retire to the sidelines while the national economy goes back to the days of "boom and bust."
Sentence 64: The power of the Government exists for the people to use.
Sentence 65: It would be folly for the people to be afraid to use their collective strength through the Government.
Sentence 66: And again I reiterate that it is your Government, and you run it.
Sentence 67: The strength of the Government is being used now--and so far as I am concerned, it will continue to be used--to protect your jobs and improve your welfare.
Sentence 68: If there is anything wrong with that, I would like to have somebody tell me what it is.
Sentence 69: Perhaps our most important single economic goal is to see that there are enough jobs for those who need them.
Sentence 70: This was the purpose behind the Employment Act of 1946• That act pledged the resources of the Federal Government for the maintenance of maximum employment, production, and purchasing power.
Sentence 71: We are now committed to using the full strength and resources of our national Government to keep our country prosperous.
Sentence 72: No one was more influential in getting that act adopted than your own Senator--Senator James Murray.
Sentence 73: And I am most sincerely sorry to hear of the illness of Mrs. Murray.
Sentence 74: I sincerely hope that she will have an early recovery.
Sentence 75: You sometimes hear it said--and I think this comes mostly from the lunatic fringe among the reactionaries--that the Government promises to make it possible for people to live without working.
Sentence 76: You know, you are a reactionary lunatic to stay in the Government.
Sentence 77: They say our Government programs would make us a nation of deadbeats and loafers.
Sentence 78: Of course, that is just as absurd as it can be.
Sentence 79: I think it is the responsibility of Government to help those who, because of old age or other disability, are unable to work, and those who, through no fault of their own, are unable to find work.
Sentence 80: I believe that the strong should help the weak, and I make no apologies for that belief, either.
Sentence 81: But for men who are able to work, I want jobs--and not idleness.
Sentence 82: That's what they want, too--an opportunity to earn their own living.
Sentence 83: I have too much faith in the American workingman to have any doubt about his willingness to give full value received for the wages he is paid.
Sentence 84: There is one thing I am accused of sometimes to which I will have to plead guilty.
Sentence 85: I am in favor of good wages.
Sentence 86: I think that the people who do the work are entitled to a fair share of the income from the product.
Sentence 87: I believe that they should share in the benefits of technological improvements and increased productivity.
Sentence 88: I believe that one of our goals should be a steadily improving standard of living for the American working man and for his family.
Sentence 89: Our main reliance for seeing that the workingman gets a fair share of the benefits of our economy, is upon collective bargaining between employees and employers.
Sentence 90: This bargaining process is carried on between private parties, but it vitally affects the public interest.
Sentence 91: It is of the utmost importance to the whole Nation that negotiations between labor and management be conducted in good faith, with sincerity and patience, by parties who are able to bargain freely as equals around a table.
Sentence 92: Before the passage of the Wagner Act in 1935, the status of collective bargaining in the United States was at a low ebb.
Sentence 93: Under the Wagner Act, great progress was made in the field of industrial relations.
Sentence 94: All too often we fail to realize that the progress achieved under that act had a lot to do with the improvement in our economic conditions which we have enjoyed.
Sentence 95: Make no mistake about it, the Wagner Act was one of the bulwarks of American liberty and prosperity.
Sentence 96: Then came 1947 and Taft-Hartley.
Sentence 97: The Taft-Hartley Act emasculated the Wagner Act and subverted its purposes.
Sentence 98: The avowed intention of its sponsors was to strengthen the hand of management.
Sentence 99: To do this, they devised a clever law which insidiously undermines the strength of labor unions.
Sentence 100: The Taft-Hartley law hangs over the head of labor, threatening to destroy the gains of 15 years.
Sentence 101: There it will hang until we are able to replace it with a law that is fair both to management and labor alike.
Sentence 102: That is something we must do--not only for the sake of labor, but for the sake of the whole country.
Sentence 103: I believe profoundly that the Taft-Hartley law is a substantial infringement of the basic freedom of collective bargaining.
Sentence 104: I will not cease to fight for its repeal.
Sentence 105: That was in the Democratic platform.
Sentence 106: I made speeches all over the country in support of the Democratic platform, and I am still going to carry out that platform, because you elected me to do it.
Sentence 107: In other fields we have made considerable progress since I last visited with you here in Butte.
Sentence 108: Last year we increased the minimum wage under Federal law from 40 cents to 75 cents an hour.
Sentence 109: That probably did not have a direct effect on many people in this city.
Sentence 110: For, I am glad to say, most people who are employed here, in jobs which that law covers, already made more than 75 cents an hour.
Sentence 111: However, you will all benefit from the improvement it brings about in other parts of the country.
Sentence 112: In the social security field the Congress has been considering a bill to strengthen our system of old-age and survivors' insurance.
Sentence 113: You will recall that I have pointed out many times how pitifully small these social security benefits now are, and how a great many people are left out altogether.
Sentence 114: I am confident that the Congress will complete action at this session on legislation which will do much to remedy both these shortcomings.
Sentence 115: However, I must confess that I have been disappointed at the inadequacy of some of the provisions which are in the bill in its present form.
Sentence 116: There is one governmental program with which some of you probably have had firsthand experience lately--that is, one of unemployment compensation.
Sentence 117: I am sorry if you had to fall back on it, but I am mighty glad that it was there for you to rely on, and I'll bet you are mighty glad of that, too.
Sentence 118: This is an insurance system to help tide workers over periods when they are temporarily out of employment through no fault of their own.
Sentence 119: This system has thoroughly proved its value, both as a means of alleviating hardship among workers and their families, and as a support to our general economy by helping to maintain purchasing power.
Sentence 120: However, this system--like the old-age insurance system--also needs modernization and strengthening.
Sentence 121: Benefit rates should be brought up to date, in line with today's prices.
Sentence 122: The duration of benefits should be extended.
Sentence 123: Additional workers should be given the benefits of the law's protection.
Sentence 124: I have made recommendations of this nature to the Congress, and I hope that the necessary improvements in this law will be made.
Sentence 125: I expect that you people are also interested in housing.
Sentence 126: You are interested in houses as homes for your families; and, if Butte is like other places, houses have been rather scarce lately.
Sentence 127: Moreover, you people here in Butte have a special interest in seeing a high level of housing construction all over the country, because people who build houses use copper, and that's your main product here.
Sentence 128: I have some things both good and bad to report about housing--mostly good.
Sentence 129: Today, home construction is at an all-time record volume.
Sentence 130: Now, that did not happen all by itself.
Sentence 131: One of the main reasons for it is that the Government has been helping to make credit available at low-interest rates for long periods.
Sentence 132: However, not enough houses are being built for low-income families and middle-income families, who too often cannot pay today's prices for housing.
Sentence 133: We have made real progress on one of these points.
Sentence 134: Last year we passed a law to provide assistance to the cities of the country in building low-rent public housing.
Sentence 135: It took a long time to get that law passed over the opposition of the real estate lobby, but we finally got it through in the first session of the 81st Congress.
Sentence 136: So far, we haven't done so well on our proposal to build more housing for middle-income families.
Sentence 137: But we are going to keep on trying--just as we did for the public housing bill--and I am sure that we will get it eventually.
Sentence 138: I have talked to you mainly today about programs which are of special significance in a great mining and industrial center such as this one.
Sentence 139: But these programs are important not only to this community; they are part of a broad national effort to achieve higher incomes and better standards of living for all the people.
Sentence 140: That is important to us.
Sentence 141: It is also important to world peace.
Sentence 142: We are now engaged in a great worldwide struggle to demonstrate that the free way of life is the way to the highest level of well-being for all the peoples of the world.
Sentence 143: To that end we must make our own economy even stronger, and must constantly improve the welfare of our people.
Sentence 144: That is a job for all of us, whether we are in private life or in public life.
Sentence 145: We will attain these goals by working together for a common cause.
Sentence 146: Thank you very much.
