Sentence 1: 1950 Rear Platform Remarks Montana 0
Sentence 2: [1.]
Sentence 3: MISSOULA, MONTANA (7:22 a.m.)
Sentence 4: After that introduction, I will have to deliver the goods, won't I?
Sentence 5: This is a grand reception, and I appreciate your willingness to come out at this hour of the day--of course, we farmers think this is pretty late in the day--but I do appreciate the fact that you were willing to come out at this hour of the day to listen to what I have to say.
Sentence 6: I was glad to meet your Governor yesterday at Grand Coulee.
Sentence 7: It has been a pleasure to see Mike this morning, and I am extremely sorry that Senator Murray's wife is sick so he can't be here.
Sentence 8: I am told that this is one of the wonder cities of the great State of Montana, and looking at this crowd, I am inclined to believe it.
Sentence 9: One reason I like this city is because it has given me one of the finest men I know in public service, and that is my good friend Mike Mansfield.
Sentence 10: Mike works not only in the interests of his district in Montana, but Mike has a national outlook that is for the welfare of the country as a whole.
Sentence 11: He is not sectional.
Sentence 12: There are few men in this country, in the Congress or out, who can equal him in the farseeing grasp he has of the country's international and domestic problems.
Sentence 13: You know, some people will take a look at an acorn and all they can see is just an acorn.
Sentence 14: But people of Mike Mansfield's type are something different.
Sentence 15: They can see into the future.
Sentence 16: They can see a giant oak tree, with its great limbs spreading upward and outward coming from that acorn.
Sentence 17: In Washington there are some men, no matter how hard they try, who can only see little acorns.
Sentence 18: I don't have to call any names, you know who they are.
Sentence 19: Even give them a magnifying glass, or even a pair of spyglasses, or even a telescope, they just shake their heads and all they can say is, "I'm sorry, I can't see anything but an acorn there."
Let me give you an example of how this little mind works.
Sentence 20: Down on the Colorado River, there is a structure of which you are all proud--Hoover Dam.
Sentence 21: Here is an interesting thing.
Sentence 22: When that dam was being planned back in 1928, it was violently fought by special interests.
Sentence 23: One Congressman from the same political party as the gentleman after whom the dam is named, had this to say about it in Congress: he said it would damage industry, it would waste the taxpayer's money, and it would lead us into communism.
Sentence 24: That's real acorn thinking, I think.
Sentence 25: Hoover Dam was built.
Sentence 26: I don't need to tell you that this democracy of ours is the world's greatest bulwark against communism, and it is stronger because of the great reclamation, irrigation, and power and flood control projects like that dam, and like the one I dedicated yesterday.
Sentence 27: Not so far north of Missoula, up near Glacier National Park, we are building another great dam--Hungry Horse.
Sentence 28: It will be one of the largest concrete structures in the world.
Sentence 29: They told me yesterday that Coulee was the largest in the world, so you have got to make a pretty big one to make it larger than Coulee.
Sentence 30: And it will provide vast new benefits to this entire region.
Sentence 31: Hungry Horse Dam will produce 285,000 kilowatts of power itself, and we will begin getting that power just 2 years from now.
Sentence 32: This is a key project in the long-range program for harnessing the great water power of the Columbia River basin.
Sentence 33: It is a major step toward the full development of Montana's water resources, much of which now lie idle and unused.
Sentence 34: Hungry Horse Dam will be valuable not only in bringing cheap power to this area, but it will aid in the production of additional cheap power at some of the present and proposed dams farther downstream.
Sentence 35: It will be helpful in cooperating with them in giving cheap power all over this whole district.
Sentence 36: Its beneficial effects will snowball all the way along.
Sentence 37: I am interested in seeing some of this power used to develop the important phosphate industry, that will bring new jobs to this State of Montana, and it will be a great boon to farmers all over the Western States.
Sentence 38: Hungry Horse will also be valuable for flood control.
Sentence 39: When I was out here in 1948, I could see that the big floods on the lower Columbia River were really started by the upstream tributaries.
Sentence 40: We shall be able to control some of these streams by dams like this at Hungry Horse.
Sentence 41: Like Hungry Horse, these dams have many values.
Sentence 42: And they are paying propositions for the taxpayer.
Sentence 43: The investment in power and irrigation are repaid direct, and the entire investment is repaid over many, many increases in the national wealth.
Sentence 44: People don't take into consideration that the construction of public works such as Hungry Horse and Grand Coulee and Hoover Dams create industries, which create new jobs, which create prosperity for immense numbers of people.
Sentence 45: Many people who talk loosely about the size of our national budget forget that many of our expenditures are investments which will make a stronger and a better country.
Sentence 46: I often think that projects like this must make the Communists wonder.
Sentence 47: They must wonder how it is possible for free men, in a democracy, to plan and develop a vast country, and do it in ways which increase the liberty and the welfare of all the people.
Sentence 48: The Communists think the only way to run things is from the top down.
Sentence 49: Our system proves that it is much more effective to run it from the bottom up.
Sentence 50: We will never be in danger from communism in this country as long as we keep looking forward and doing things to increase the welfare and freedom of our people.
Sentence 51: I hope the country never gets into the hands of little men with acorn minds.
Sentence 52: Let us keep it in the hands of men who can see the trees, and who will work for a nation, and a world, at peace.
Sentence 53: You people have been grand to me here in Montana, and I appreciate it, and I hope that on this trip I can persuade the people of the Nation that it is their welfare we are working for.
Sentence 54: I am out here to make a report to you, just as I would make a report to Congress, and I think you have a perfect right to that report.
Sentence 55: And I know you are interested in it, or you wouldn't get up this early in the morning to hear what I have got to say about it.
Sentence 56: And I thank you very much.
Sentence 57: [2.]
Sentence 58: GARRISON, MONTANA (9:15 a.m.)
Sentence 59: I am so happy to see all you schoolchildren out here this morning.
Sentence 60: I imagine you must have had a holiday today, didn't you ?
Sentence 61: We have been traveling around over the country meeting people and explaining to them various aspects of the Government, because we believe that people are really interested in the Government.
Sentence 62: I am more than happy this morning to have the Governor of the great State of Montana and Mike Mansfield, the Congressman from the First Montana District, here with me.
Sentence 63: We have some tremendous problems facing us in the operation of the Government of the United States.
Sentence 64: The Government, as you know, is your Government.
Sentence 65: The President is your President.
Sentence 66: He is the only national official besides the Vice President who is elected at large by the whole country.
Sentence 67: I deem it my duty, and it is a constitutional necessity for me to make reports to the Congress once a year on the state of the Union.
Sentence 68: This time I am going around over the country trying to make a report on the state of the Union to the people themselves.
Sentence 69: I am glad to see you all this morning.
Sentence 70: I have been discussing the farm problems, reclamation, the national resources of the country; and yesterday, I dedicated Grand Coulee Dam to the uses of the people.
Sentence 71: That is one of the greatest projects in the history of the world.
Sentence 72: When it is finally finished, it will create more than 2 million kilowatts of electricity.
Sentence 73: That is a wonderful thing.
Sentence 74: It was running yesterday at the rate of 1,580,000 kilowatts, and there were all sorts of gadgets for us to look at.
Sentence 75: Not only does that dam create power for use in that section of the country, but it will also eventually lift water into the desert and put a million acres into cultivation.
Sentence 76: Sometime beginning in 1952, I think, the first irrigated farm will be opened up.
Sentence 77: Now you have projects like that in Montana.
Sentence 78: Hungry Horse is one of them.
Sentence 79: That great dam will create 2,285,000 kilowatts when it is finished.
Sentence 80: It will create jobs.
Sentence 81: It will create cheap power.
Sentence 82: It will help this part of the world go into industry, and you can't lose anything by it, and neither can any of the rest of the country.
Sentence 83: I explained yesterday that we have a Northwest power district, and a Southwest power district, a Southeast power district, and we hope to have a Northeast power district, if we can ever get the St. Lawrence development as it should be.
Sentence 84: Then we have the center of the country with the Mississippi, Missouri, Ohio River Valleys which can be developed in exactly the same way.
Sentence 85: All that will create wealth, create jobs, create industries; and it helps the country.
Sentence 86: There are some people who think that these things ought not to be done, because they like to have things stay just as they are.
Sentence 87: I am not one of them.
Sentence 88: I believe in progress, and I am happy to say that your Congressman, Mike Mansfield, believes in progress, too.
Sentence 89: He is one of our ablest public officials in this country, and I depend on him a great deal, because I know he has good judgment, I know his heart is right, and I know he believes in doing things for the benefit of all the people.
Sentence 90: It has been mighty nice of you to come out here this morning.
Sentence 91: I am more than happy to see all of you, and I am glad I got this 5-minute stop here, so that I could get a chance to say a few words to you.
Sentence 92: Thank you very much.
Sentence 93: [3.]
Sentence 94: BUTTE, MONTANA (Address, 10:55 a.m., see Item 128)
Sentence 95: [4.] HELENA, MONTANA (2:17 p.m.)
Governor, Congressman Mansfield, and ladies and gentlemen:
I appreciate very much this fine reception which the people of Helena have given me today.
Sentence 96: I certainly am glad to be here on Vigilante Day.
Sentence 97: I wish I could have seen that parade.
Sentence 98: I was glad to get a chance to see those floats alongside the train on each side.
Sentence 99: I think my family has enjoyed them as much as anything they have seen on the trip.
Sentence 100: I appreciate also the introduction from Governor Bonner.
Sentence 101: I think he has given me a little too much credit, but I appreciate it just the same.
Sentence 102: The Governor was with me yesterday at Grand Coulee, when I had the privilege of dedicating Grand Coulee.
Sentence 103: Today that dam is just about the biggest manmade structure in the world, it is generating more power than any other power plant in existence, and in a few years it will be providing water for hundreds of thousands of acres.
Sentence 104: Grand Coulee is a product of the vision and farsightedness of the people of the Northwest, people who can make bold plans for the future, and who not only can make the bold plans but who have the courage and the energy to carry them out.
Sentence 105: I am glad that Canyon Ferry Dam is being built not far from here.
Sentence 106: While Canyon Ferry Dam is not as big as Grand Coulee, it will be of tremendous importance and benefit to all this area.
Sentence 107: It should provide water for nearly half a million acres, and the power from Canyon Ferry will mean lowcost electricity for farms, city homes, and new industries.
Sentence 108: Projects like Canyon Ferry benefit everybody in the country.
Sentence 109: They are a real investment in the future of the Nation as a whole.
Sentence 110: You only have to travel across the country, as I have been doing this week, to realize what a wonderful future is ahead of us.
Sentence 111: Everywhere I have been, I have seen encouraging evidence of expansion and growth, and preparation for future prosperity.
Sentence 112: Of course, I have met a few skeptics who have been saying that the country is going to the dogs.
Sentence 113: They say that we are going bankrupt, or that we are headed straight for socialism.
Sentence 114: But the fact is, these calamity howlers have been saying the same thing for years.
Sentence 115: They have always been wrong in the past, and they are just as wrong now as they were in the past.
Sentence 116: Let us take a look at some of the recent progress we have made--progress, by the way, that we have made in spite of those same skeptics.
Sentence 117: Twenty years ago, we were at the beginning of a terrible depression that lasted over 3 long years.
Sentence 118: Beginning in 1933 we began a vigorous reform.
Sentence 119: By 1939 we were producing more goods and services than we had in the last boom year before the depression.
Sentence 120: Since 1939 we have done even better.
Sentence 121: Since 1939 the annual per capita income of our citizens, after taxes, has increased by more than 40 percent.
Sentence 122: The income of farmowners, although it has slipped some in the last year or so, is more than 50 percent higher than it was in 1939.
Sentence 123: And annual wages and salaries of employees have increased about 75 percent.
Sentence 124: And, despite terrible howlings from some quarters, the annual income of corporate businesses, after taxes, has increased 100 percent since 1939.
Sentence 125: Doesn't look very much to me like the country is going to the dogs.
Sentence 126: I am convinced that we can do just as well in the future as we have done in the past.
Sentence 127: I am convinced that we can lift our annual output of goods and services to more than $350 billion by 1960.
Sentence 128: This will be a one-third increase, and that increase will be good for everybody.
Sentence 129: Farmers and workers and businessmen can and should all prosper together.
Sentence 130: I am convinced that by 1960 the standard of living of every industrious family in the country will be far better than it is now.
Sentence 131: I wish I had time to give you some statistics that come to me each month.
Sentence 132: I know, if you had a chance to study them, you would be just as optimistic and enthusiastic about our future as I am.
Sentence 133: Every month, and then quarterly, I receive an economic report from the economic advisers to the President of the United States, and that report goes into great detail on the situation as it develops in the country each month.
Sentence 134: The reason I am optimistic, this report shows that employment is on the rise, that income is on the rise, and that prices are holding steady.
Sentence 135: It shows that unemployment is far less than it was at the beginning of the year.
Sentence 136: It shows that the output of goods and services is far greater than it was at the beginning of the year.
Sentence 137: This report is a combination of all the reports in the country, made up from reports by the Securities and Exchange Commission, reports of the Department of Labor, reports of the economic experts on the Board of Trade, on the New York Stock Exchange, reports by the Chicago Board of Trade, reports from all the departments of the Government--the Department of Commerce, the Treasury Department--the reason I was delayed a little bit, the Secretary of the Treasury had to call up and talk to me about some business that had to be transacted over the telephone; but the report gives the complete picture of the economic situation in the United States every 30 days.
Sentence 138: And I know what I am talking about when I talk to you optimistically about what the future holds.
Sentence 139: And don't let anybody tell you anything different but that this Republic, the greatest in the history of the world, is on the road to becoming greater and greater.
Sentence 140: And when we do that, we will get peace in the world.
Sentence 141: Of course, this won't all happen by just sitting down and waiting for it to happen.
Sentence 142: You have got to do something to make it happen.
Sentence 143: We must work toward the kind of farm program that will put farming on a permanently sound basis.
Sentence 144: We need to expand and extend our social security laws; we need a housing program that will enable low and middle income families to own their own homes.
Sentence 145: We must conserve and develop our national resources to better advantage, and that must be developed in the public interest and not for the "greed" boys.
Sentence 146: We must see that our children get a good education.
Sentence 147: If we have these measures, and others like them, then the United States will continue to grow and to prosper, and our Nation will continue to exert a strong force for peace in the world.
Sentence 148: Since September 2, 1945, my whole time has been spent in an effort and an endeavor to get a lasting peace for the world.
Sentence 149: One of the first decisions I had to make when I was sworn in as President of the United States on April 12, 1945, after President Roosevelt had died, was the decision as to whether we should hold the San Francisco conference and form the United Nations.
Sentence 150: I said, "Yes, we will go forward with it," and we were successful in organizing the United Nations, and we are going to be successful in making it work for peace.
Sentence 151: To do that, we must have the wholehearted support of the people of the United States for that purpose.
Sentence 152: That is the reason I am going around over the country reporting to you on just what conditions are, and what is necessary to obtain the world objective for which we work and pray.
Sentence 153: I hope that you will inform yourselves completely on all the issues.
Sentence 154: I hope you will find out just exactly what is meant by the messages which I send to the Congress.
Sentence 155: I hope you will find out just exactly what the debates in the Congress mean.
Sentence 156: And I hope you will study very carefully those people who are trying to overturn our interest in the United Nations, and who are trying to put us back in the 1890's.
Sentence 157: We are not going back--we are going forward, to 1960, and 1970, and 1980, and anon.
Sentence 158: We are going to be better after each decade than we were when we started on that decade.
Sentence 159: We can do that, if you will wholeheartedly help to do it, and work to do it--and that is what I am asking you to do.
Sentence 160: And that is the reason I am out here.
Sentence 161: [5.] GREAT FALLS, MONTANA (5:25 p.m.)
Thank you, Congressman Mansfield.
Sentence 162: It is a very great pleasure to have had the opportunity to ride across the great State of Montana with your Governor and with Congressman Mansfield.
Sentence 163: The Congressman is one who really knows what it's all about, and who works at it.
Sentence 164: I like him very much.
Sentence 165: I appreciate this welcome very much in this largest city in Montana.
Sentence 166: It seems to me that this great city knows how to do things.
Sentence 167: I have had a most successful and satisfactory trip across the country during the past week, and now I am on my way back to Washington.
Sentence 168: On this trip I have been giving a firsthand report to the people of the great Northwest and the Middle West about the problems this country is now facing, and what we are doing about them, and what we need to do in the future.
Sentence 169: Here in Great Fails you are fortunate in having a fine newspaper, the Great Falls Tribune.
Sentence 170: I wish there were more Great Falls Tribunes around the country so the people could get the truth.
Sentence 171: In the past few days I have been describing the great work we have been doing in conservation, irrigation, reclamation, electric power, and flood control.
Sentence 172: We have been building some magnificent structures like the Grand Coulee Dam, the Hungry Horse Dam, and Canyon Ferry Dam here in Montana.
Sentence 173: But these are only the beginning of the coordinated development of all of our natural resources.
Sentence 174: We need to speed up the development of our resources, if we are to keep our economy prosperous and expanding.
Sentence 175: Down in Butte this morning, I explained what kind of labor-management laws we need on the books, and I explained why it is necessary to extend our social security system, and to expand and increase our systems of old-age insurance and unemployment compensation.
Sentence 176: We have done some fine work in the housing field since the war, but we are still far short of our goal of having a decent home for every family in the country.
Sentence 177: Here in Great Falls, a city that has grown so rapidly in the last few years, you can certainly appreciate how badly we need a long-range, low-income, and middle-income housing program.
Sentence 178: In Lincoln, Nebr., the other day, and at a number of other towns since then, I have explained the kind of farm legislation we need to put on the books.
Sentence 179: Our present price support laws have kept farmers' incomes from dropping as badly as they did after the First World War.
Sentence 180: But they are not good enough.
Sentence 181: In the last 2 years farm income has dropped substantially.
Sentence 182: One of the main improvements we need to make in our present laws is to provide for a system of production payments.
Sentence 183: This would help us make sure that the incomes of farmers would stay at prosperity levels, that we would get greater amounts of the kinds of foods we need, and we would avoid huge surpluses.
Sentence 184: You know, to read some newspapers, you would think that no one supported the system of production payments to farmers that I just described.
Sentence 185: But the fact is, more and more people all over the country are realizing that production payments are exactly what we need.
Sentence 186: For example, after my Lincoln speech the other day, I got a telegram from the Master of the Ohio State Grange, and he told me that he was very much in favor of the system.
Sentence 187: I have the telegram right here, if anybody has any doubts about it.
Sentence 188: Also, at the Minnesota State Fair last fall, they held a--what you might call a poll, but this was an actual poll, the people were there, and they voted themselves; and it came out nearly two-to-one for production payments, but they didn't say anything about it in the papers that were against it.
Sentence 189: The American people support the programs I have been discussing, when they learn the true facts about them.
Sentence 190: When the people understand these measures, they realize that they are vitally important to the future growth of this great country.
Sentence 191: It is just as important to see that people in other countries learn the facts about the United States, and what we are doing for world peace.
Sentence 192: We face a great problem these days: the menace of Communist aggression.
Sentence 193: The Communists want to take over all the world, and they are trying to win converts to their side by telling preposterous lies about the United States.
Sentence 194: Out of one side of their mouths they say we are weak and that we are going to collapse.
Sentence 195: Out of the other side they say we are strong, and we are getting ready to wage an imperialistic war.
Sentence 196: These lies are dangerous because there are millions of people in the world who don't have accurate sources of information, and who simply don't know the truth about the United States.
Sentence 197: And there are a lot of people right here in the United States that don't know the truth about their own country, and I am trying to teach them.
Sentence 198: That is why I have been urging a great campaign of truth.
Sentence 199: I would like to see our newspapers, our magazines, our radios, and our motion picture companies join with the Government in spreading the truth to Europe, Asia, and Africa, about what we are really like in this country.
Sentence 200: I think that when the people know the truth about the United States, they will turn to our side, not the side of communism.
Sentence 201: The Communists have an organization which does not believe in morals or ethics or truth.
Sentence 202: They work with lies, and they try to mislead people, and when they get control they are just a plain police state.
Sentence 203: You can't go anywhere, or do anything, or talk to anybody, without permission from those up above.
Sentence 204: That is not the kind of country we fought for and worked for since 1776.
Sentence 205: I think we have got the greatest government in the history of the world, and I am trying to support that government with everything I have.
Sentence 206: I have sworn to support and defend the Constitution of the United States, and that is what I am doing as President of the United States.
Sentence 207: I am out here telling you the facts as I see them.
Sentence 208: That is my job.
Sentence 209: Every year I make a report to the Congress called the message on the state of the Union.
Sentence 210: I have made a trip around the country this time, giving the message on the state of the Union to the people themselves, so they will understand what I am trying to do, and I believe they do understand it.
Sentence 211: Thank you again for this wonderful reception.
Sentence 212: I appreciate it more than I can tell you.
Sentence 213: [6.]
Sentence 214: BIG SANDY, MONTANA (7:45 p.m.)
Sentence 215: You know, I have been reading a lot of stories about Big Sandy, Mont., and most of them were most interesting.
Sentence 216: I have always wanted to see this location in the United States that was once one of the most famous cow towns in the country.
Sentence 217: I also heard from the brakeman on this train that this town during the war bought more bonds per capita than any other town in the United States, and I congratulate you on that, too.
Sentence 218: Everywhere I have stopped on this cross-country trip of mine, large crowds have come out to see me.
Sentence 219: I appreciate that very, very much.
Sentence 220: I think it means that the people are interested in their Government, and that they want to learn what the facts are about, what our Government is doing, and what I am trying to do, and what I am fighting for.
Sentence 221: One of the subjects in which I am vitally interested, and which concerns you people here in the West very directly, is reclamation and irrigation.
Sentence 222: Here at Big Sandy, you people are in the area which will feel the direct benefits from our construction of Tiber Dam, west of here on the Marias River.
Sentence 223: We have got a river of that same name in Missouri, also--named by the same Frenchman, by the way, too.
Sentence 224: I understand that actual construction of Tiber Dam will begin this summer.
Sentence 225: Great reclamation developments like this all over the country seem to cost a lot of money, but they bring back big returns.
Sentence 226: They are investments, not expenditures.
Sentence 227: Tiber Dam will mean better incomes for the farmers now here, and opportunities for new farmers to come.
Sentence 228: It will help you build a bigger and more prosperous community.
Sentence 229: By carrying out the projects like Tiber Dam, we are building a stronger and more prosperous country.
Sentence 230: We are laying the foundations for lasting farm prosperity.
Sentence 231: I am very much interested in seeing the farmers of this country well off.
Sentence 232: I grew up on a farm myself, and I know how hard a farmer's life can be.
Sentence 233: But a farmer's life these days is nothing like the life I had to spend.
Sentence 234: I have got a couple of nephews running the old farm together, and they do most of their farming sitting down.
Sentence 235: I used to stand up and walk to do mine.
Sentence 236: We have been doing a lot in recent years to make farm life easier and happier.
Sentence 237: Bringing electricity to farmers has made them much more productive, and it has certainly made life on the farm much more pleasant.
Sentence 238: Fifteen years ago, when the REA started, only 10 percent of the farm houses had electricity.
Sentence 239: Now 80 percent of farm homes have electricity.
Sentence 240: Congress is authorizing a program--a Federal program--to extend rural telephone facilities.
Sentence 241: I am very pleased to see that, because I know how much telephone service means to people who are isolated, especially in areas where there are long and severe winters.
Sentence 242: Government money spent to help improve rural life is one of the best investments we can make in the future of the United States.
Sentence 243: Better farmers mean a stronger Nation, and a strong United States is the best hope of a lasting peace in this world.
Sentence 244: What I want to see is a balanced economy in this great United States of ours.
Sentence 245: I want the farmer to have a fair share of the national income of this country.
Sentence 246: I want to see labor receive good wages so that they can buy farm products, and I want to see business, both big and little, prosperous and able to carry on the necessary distribution of the things that we need.
Sentence 247: That is what makes a great country--a country in which all the people can share alike in its wealth.
Sentence 248: If we do that, then we are in a position before the world to say that our system of government is the best in the world--is the best in the history of the world.
Sentence 249: If we can do that, eventually we will get a world peace without the necessity of having our young men slaughtered as they have been in the past.
Sentence 250: Thank you very much for coming out here tonight.
Sentence 251: I appreciate it.
Sentence 252: It has been a pleasure.
Sentence 253: [7.] HAVRE, MONTANA (8:45 p.m.)
Sentence 254: Thank you very much, Governor, for that cordial introduction, I appreciate it most highly.
Sentence 255: It is a pleasure to have the Governor and Congressman Mansfield on the train today in the trip across Montana.
Sentence 256: I had thought at nearly every stop that all the people of Montana were there, but apparently they weren't, because most of them are here tonight.
Sentence 257: Of course I am more than happy to be here this evening, and to see so many musicians in the audience.
Sentence 258: I understand that you are going to have a musical festival tomorrow.
Sentence 259: My only regret is that I can't stay over.
Sentence 260: Maybe you have heard that I like music, too.
Sentence 261: The fact is that my whole family is musically minded.
Sentence 262: As I have traveled across the country in the past few days, I have been deeply impressed with the new opportunities that are opening up for the young people of this country.
Sentence 263: Many of you can't remember the days in the early 1930's, when young men and women were roaming the streets, looking hopelessly for jobs which never turned up.
Sentence 264: Those were days of despair, when the future looked black for everybody.
Sentence 265: I hope you never have to go through a period like that, and I don't believe you ever will.
Sentence 266: We know now more about how to keep our country prosperous than we did in those days.
Sentence 267: The young people who are growing up in this country now have many advantages that their parents did not have.
Sentence 268: All of us want our children to have a better life than we had, and it should be the constant aim of each generation to make things better for the next.
Sentence 269: It has always been a part of the American dream, and I think we have been successful in accomplishing it to a most remarkable degree.
Sentence 270: However, I am very much afraid that we are in danger of losing ground in one field which is of greatest importance, and the one where we have taken great pride in our past accomplishments.
Sentence 271: That is the field of education.
Sentence 272: You know, there is no person who has more influence on the life and outlook of the young--besides his mother--than his teacher.
Sentence 273: His teacher usually has a lasting influence on how he conducts his life after he is grown.
Sentence 274: I can remember my first-grade teacher, and my second-grade teacher, and my high school teachers.
Sentence 275: And the ideals they tried to instill into me I still remember and try to live up to.
Sentence 276: Our schools are already in difficulty in many parts of the country, and the greatly increased number of young children who will be reaching school age during the next few years will place such a load upon them as to bring on a real crisis.
Sentence 277: At the present time our schools are bursting at the seams.
Sentence 278: Buildings are at times too old, or too crowded, and we do not have enough teachers, and those we have are overworked and underpaid.
Sentence 279: Educational opportunities in rural areas do not measure up to those in the cities.
Sentence 280: We urgently need to construct more schools, and to provide the transportation necessary to bring the children to the schools.
Sentence 281: We also need to expand our vocational education program.
Sentence 282: Last year, only one-half the high schools in the country were able to provide a vocational education program for their students.
Sentence 283: The plain truth is that the cost of providing adequate school systems has long been beyond the financial resources of many of our States.
Sentence 284: I have proposed to meet this crisis through a program of Federal financial aid to the States and Territories.
Sentence 285: The Senate has already passed such a bill, and I hope that the House will press forward to enact a law to aid education at this session.
Sentence 286: Some timid people have raised the false bugaboo of Federal control over education.
Sentence 287: I do not believe in Federal control, and I do not want Federal control in the schools.
Sentence 288: I am wholeheartedly in favor of continuing State control over education.
Sentence 289: The right way to meet this crisis is for the Federal Government to provide financial assistance to the States, and let the individual States decide how the money shall be spent.
Sentence 290: This country has always been a land of opportunity, and I intend to do my part to keep it that way.
Sentence 291: The American people are deeply devoted to the ideal of universal free education.
Sentence 292: We must make sure that each boy and girl does get a good education.
Sentence 293: Money spent for education is a valuable investment in the future of this country.
Sentence 294: We should move forward and secure a brighter future for the generations in the coming years that will guide the Nation.
Sentence 295: There is nothing that could be more important to our country's welfare.
Sentence 296: You know, the next generation will either face the greatest age in history, or it won't.
Sentence 297: And it is up to that generation itself to decide on the course it will pursue.
Sentence 298: I think we are on the threshold of an age that will make the past 50 years look like the Middle Ages.
Sentence 299: I want to see this country go forward to the ideal condition which I know it is capable of.
Sentence 300: And I know that you young people can take us to that goal, if you go ahead with the proper education, if you learn to be the right sort of citizens of the greatest Republic in the history of the world.
Sentence 301: There is nothing in the world to keep you from doing all the great things that are now before us--to work for peace in the world, and eventually we will get that peace, because it is right, and we are on the right side in trying to get it.
Sentence 302: Thank you very much.
Sentence 303: I forgot to mention the fact that Senator Murray's wife is exceedingly ill.
Sentence 304: He hasn't been able to be out here today because she has undergone a very serious operation.
Sentence 305: And I have had two telegrams from him stating that he would have been here had it not been for the illness of Mrs. Murray.
Sentence 306: I am certainly sorry about it.
Sentence 307: [At this point a Chief of the Blackfoot Indian Tribe presented the President with an Indian bonnet and a peace pipe.
Sentence 308: A little later, as the train was pulling out of the station, the President remarked to the crowd as follows:]
Sentence 309: Thank you all again.
Sentence 310: I appreciate those bands and the drum corps very much.
Sentence 311: I want to thank the Chief for that bonnet and that peace pipe.
Sentence 312: I hope we can always smoke the peace pipe with the rest of the world.
