Sentence 1: 1950
Sentence 2: Address Lincoln Nebraska

THANK YOU very much.
Sentence 3: I just can't realize the compliment which you are paying to me, to come out here in all this rain, although I had told Governor Peterson that I was very sure that the rain would be more welcome at this time than the President of the United States.
Sentence 4: I believe they are both welcome.
Sentence 5: You know, I have been very well acquainted with several of your Governors.
Sentence 6: I have had two of them in the public service, Roy Cochran and Dwight Griswold.
Sentence 7: That is a bipartisan arrangement, because one is a Democrat and the other is a Republican.
Sentence 8: I was well acquainted with Mr. Bryan when he was Governor of this State, and I have been up here on numerous occasions.
Sentence 9: I came up here at one time when I was responsible for the construction of the courthouse in Jackson County, to examine your great Capitol buildings.
Sentence 10: The architect of that building was very nice to me, and explained to me that your Capitol would go down in history as one of the wonders of architecture.
Sentence 11: You do have some wonderful things up here.
Sentence 12: I just want to explain to you that I am a neighbor.
Sentence 13: I understand your situation, and I sincerely wish that the weather was such that you could stay and listen to what I have to say.
Sentence 14: Now, whether you like it or not, I am going to have to make this speech, because it is on the record, and it has been given out on the streets, and the newspapermen will be checking on me to see whether I have got nerve enough to make it.
Sentence 15: I know what rain means to farmers, so if you don't stay here while I make this speech, I won't be offended in the slightest.
Sentence 16: You know, I have been looking forward very much to this visit to the Middle West.
Sentence 17: This is my own home country, and I always enjoy coming back to it.
Sentence 18: I am particularly glad to be in Lincoln on this trip.
Sentence 19: Here in the center of the Nation, where the Corn Belt merges with the Great Plains, we can see clearly the greatness and the importance of American agriculture.
Sentence 20: This city of Lincoln depends on the farming areas around it for the sources of its livelihood.
Sentence 21: The city draws products from agriculture, and in turn provides goods and services to the smaller towns and farm families nearby.
Sentence 22: This is the pattern all over this great country.
Sentence 23: The whole development of this Nation shows how city and country, industry and agriculture, can grow and prosper together, by cooperation and with mutual benefit.
Sentence 24: What's true of our country is true of all the world.
Sentence 25: Our country today, along with other free countries, is engaged in a tremendous effort to bring about peace based on freedom and justice.
Sentence 26: Make no mistake about it, the struggle we are in now is just as important to our future as was our victory in the last war.
Sentence 27: If we are to win through to the peace, we must maintain a healthy and strong economy.
Sentence 28: And our economy can grow and prosper only if the other free countries grow and prosper also.
Sentence 29: For the genius of freedom is to succeed not by exploitation but by cooperation.
Sentence 30: American agriculture is directly concerned with the success of our program for peace.
Sentence 31: You here in Lincoln are directly affected by what happens these days in Berlin, in Paris, in Singapore.
Sentence 32: No one should know that better than the American farmer, because farmers remember what happened to them after the last war.
Sentence 33: In the early 1920's the bottom fell out of agriculture in this country.
Sentence 34: Export markets disappeared.
Sentence 35: Prices plummeted to the bottom.
Sentence 36: The price of corn dropped in 18 months from $2 to 42 cents a bushel.
Sentence 37: The price of cotton fell from 40 cents to 10 cents a pound.
Sentence 38: Land values collapsed.
Sentence 39: The resulting agricultural depression in the 1920
's was the forerunner of the national depression of the thirties.
Sentence 40: Those were the days when international trade barriers were built up and up, in a foolish and futile effort to gain advantage at the expense of somebody else.
Sentence 41: Those were the days when farmers were left alone to struggle with their problems while the rest of the country went up and up on the bubble of the boom.
Sentence 42: When that bubble burst, the hollow nature of that boom was revealed.
Sentence 43: Our country and the whole world suffered the agony of the great depression.
Sentence 44: It is perfectly evident now how worldwide depression paved the way for the Second World War.
Sentence 45: That is why we are doing everything we can to see that the same thing doesn't happen again.
Sentence 46: That is why we are working so hard to bring about a sensible development of world trade and a healthy world economy.
Sentence 47: That is why we are determined to prevent another agricultural depression.
Sentence 48: Fortunately, we have the experience of the last 17 years to guide us.
Sentence 49: In 1933 we started in to attack the national depression at its roots.
Sentence 50: One of our first efforts was to overcome the farm depression.
Sentence 51: We developed special credit programs to rescue farm families.
Sentence 52: We stepped up agricultural research to develop better crops and broader markets.
Sentence 53: We started national soil conservation programs to restore the basis for the abundant production.
Sentence 54: We developed a price-support program to assure farmers a fair income.
Sentence 55: These and other farm programs helped farmers and they helped the whole country.
Sentence 56: The national farm income in 1940 was twice as large as in 1932--which meant twice as big a farm market for industrial products.
Sentence 57: As farm income increased, the income of the rest of our people also increased.
Sentence 58: This was a practical demonstration of the truth that the people of this country prosper together, and they suffer together also.
Sentence 59: Of course, these new farm programs were opposed by selfish or shortsighted people.
Sentence 60: It was the same kind of mudslinging, name-calling opposition that you hear now every time we bring up a new proposal for the benefit of the whole people.
Sentence 61: I remember when I first went to the Senate, an important farm bill was being debated which became the foundation of our present agricultural conservation program.
Sentence 62: Over in the House of Representatives, one Congressman said this legislation was "an attempt to enslave the farmer," and that it was "communistic."
Sentence 63: Another Congressman said that under this legislation farmers would be "dominated and regimented for all time"--they would "no longer . . .
Sentence 64: be free men.
Sentence 65: "
These were the same people whose weird brand of "statesmanship" had brought us to the low point of 1932.
Sentence 66: They and their kind opposed all the efforts that were made to get the country out of the trouble they had got us into--just as they are opposing our efforts to improve things today.
Sentence 67: When you think how miserably wrong they have proved to be in the past, you can see just how little truth there is in the wild charges they are throwing around now.
Sentence 68: They said--back there in the thirties-that our farm program was "an attempt to enslave the farmer."
Sentence 69: Instead, it has made the farmer free--free of the crushing burden of debt that had driven him to the verge of revolution in those dreadful days of the depression.
Sentence 70: They said our farm programs were "communistic."
Sentence 71: Instead, they have strengthened the foundations of democracy by making the farmer more secure in the ownership of his own land.
Sentence 72: They said farmers would be "regimented."
Sentence 73: Instead, farmers regained control over their own destinies, and under these programs they have enjoyed more liberty and led a better life than ever before in the history of the country.
Sentence 74: That is the real story of what happened under our farm laws.
Sentence 75: These laws led to freedom and prosperity.
Sentence 76: They were, and are, strong bulwarks for our free and democratic society.
Sentence 77: Remember that fact when you hear people today croaking the old charges of "socialism" and "regimentation" about every new proposal for progress.
Sentence 78: Then, when the war came along, our farm programs proved their worth all over again.
Sentence 79: The soil conservation, research, and education programs made possible an enormous rise in farm output, even though fewer people were available for farm work.
Sentence 80: The stored-up surpluses of cotton and wheat and other crops, which had been bitterly criticized before the war, turned out to be extremely valuable.
Sentence 81: The price-support system was adapted to wartime needs.
Sentence 82: It was used to encourage farmers to increase total production and to turn out the right amounts of each essential product.
Sentence 83: As a result, we provided well for our fighting men and our war plants, we shipped great supplies to our allies, and our civilians had more and better food than ever before.
Sentence 84: The tremendous expansion of production during the war was equally valuable when the shooting stopped.
Sentence 85: In the years since the war, literally millions of people have been saved from a starvation diet by the products of our fields.
Sentence 86: Food from this country helped to stop and roll back the advance of communism.
Sentence 87: Without that food, many of our friends in Europe would have been lost to the cause of freedom.
Sentence 88: Today, our farm programs are undergoing new tests.
Sentence 89: They have proved their worth in bringing about economic recovery and meeting the demands of war.
Sentence 90: During the last few years, we have been faced with the problems involved in readjusting to peacetime needs.
Sentence 91: Two things have been made abundantly clear.
Sentence 92: First, that our programs have served us well--have indeed been our salvation-- in preventing the kind of disaster that followed after the First World War.
Sentence 93: Second, that there are defects in the present system which require correction.
Sentence 94: One of the main reasons we have had no serious economic downturn since the war is the farm price-support system.
Sentence 95: After the First World War, net farm income dropped nearly 50 percent in a single year.
Sentence 96: This time, when the market prices of some commodities began to fall sharply, the price support system checked the decline and protected the farmers' incomes.
Sentence 97: Everybody in this country is better off today as a result of this fact.
Sentence 98: However, our present farm price-support program is not fully satisfactory.
Sentence 99: It is not encouraging the substantial readjustments in production that are needed.
Sentence 100: It has allowed farm income to slide downward too much and too fast.
Sentence 101: In the last 2 years, farm income has dropped more than 20 percent.
Sentence 102: That is nothing like what happened after the First World War.
Sentence 103: Nevertheless, it is very serious.
Sentence 104: This drop is not good for farmers, and it is not good for the rest of the country.
Sentence 105: We need to take positive action to stop and reverse that trend.
Sentence 106: Furthermore, the present law provides no satisfactory basis for dealing with perishable crops.
Sentence 107: The present program relies on the Government's taking off the market commodities which are in temporary surplus.
Sentence 108: That works all right for products which are storable, as long as we don't build stockpiles bigger than may be needed in an emergency.
Sentence 109: But such a system doesn't work for perishables.
Sentence 110: It is foolish to have the Government buy and store food that people want to eat now.
Sentence 111: It is even worse to have the Government buy food and destroy it, but that sometimes happens under the present program.
Sentence 112: Everyone knows about the shameful potato situation.
Sentence 113: This can lead to public resentment strong enough to discredit the whole farm program.
Sentence 114: The taxpayers should not be expected to foot the bill for buying food which has to be wasted.
Sentence 115: These obvious defects of the present support program have led to a great clamor.
Sentence 116: Some people would like to abandon the program altogether.
Sentence 117: Others would like to abandon all of it except the part that helps the crops they are particularly interested in.
Sentence 118: Others are just interested in muddying the waters for partisan political advantage.
Sentence 119: It is not easy to disregard this clamor and see clearly what is right to do in the interest of the whole Nation.
Sentence 120: We must base our decisions on the facts that are demonstrated by our experience.
Sentence 121: We must preserve the good features of the present program.
Sentence 122: They are built on a solid foundation.
Sentence 123: They are necessary for our own welfare and that of the free world.
Sentence 124: But we clearly need to improve and strengthen existing legislation.
Sentence 125: This administration has made a very careful study of the changes that are necessary to adjust our farm support program to present conditions.
Sentence 126: A series of recommendations were worked out within the administration and were presented to the Congress last year by the Secretary of Agriculture.
Sentence 127: Those recommendations take the existing program which has been built up through years of experience, and seek to improve it further to meet the shortcomings which are evident.
Sentence 128: No one claims that these recommendations are perfect in every detail.
Sentence 129: We are constantly looking for ways to improve them.
Sentence 130: I am firmly convinced, however, that they form by far the most comprehensive, effective and progressive proposals that have yet been offered.
Sentence 131: The essential purposes of these proposals can be very simply stated.
Sentence 132: First, they are designed to obtain the amounts and kinds of farm products that are needed in an expanding economy, and to assure the farmers the opportunity to earn a fair income for producing those products.
Sentence 133: The support program must encourage farmers to reduce costs, and to shift production to the commodities for which we ought to have expanding markets.
Sentence 134: In particular, it should encourage farmers to shift to livestock, rather than to continue producing surpluses of such crops as grain and cotton.
Sentence 135: Under the proposals we have made, farmers would be given incentives to make the needed shifts in production.
Sentence 136: Farmers would be assured of support for all the crops which yield a major share of farm income.
Sentence 137: At present, some of the most important ones are left out.
Sentence 138: Furthermore, recent production and prices, rather than some out-of-date historical period, would be used in calculating fair income support levels.
Sentence 139: These are obviously desirable changes.
Sentence 140: It would continue to be necessary, in some cases, to limit production to genuine consumer demand, in order to avoid surpluses greater than amounts which are needed for storage.
Sentence 141: There are some people--the same people who have been against the farmer all along--who seize on this fact and go around crying "regimentation" and talk about how the farmer is going to lose all his liberty.
Sentence 142: Now this is just as strange as it can be.
Sentence 143: The truth is that such limitations have been provided for in our major farm support programs for many years.
Sentence 144: We have known since the experience of the Federal Farm Board, some 20 years ago, that there are times when some control of production is needed to make a support program workable.
Sentence 145: Unless production controls are available on some crops, for use when needed, price support could be an impossible burden on the taxpayers.
Sentence 146: And here is something to remember.
Sentence 147: Under our system, quotas are not imposed unless two-thirds of the farmers affected vote for them.
Sentence 148: When two-thirds of the farmers vote to adopt quotas for themselves it is preposterous to go around calling that regimentation.
Sentence 149: Moreover, quotas are administered by local committees elected by the farmers themselves.
Sentence 150: These production controls are in complete accord with the tradition of democratic self-government.
Sentence 151: The second purpose of the administration's proposals for changes in our support program is to provide a method for using our entire supply of perishable products, instead of taking part of it off the market and putting it on the shelf.
Sentence 152: Under our method all the product would go into the market and be consumed.
Sentence 153: A system of direct production payments to farmers would make up any difference between the average market price and a fair return to the farmer.
Sentence 154: Such a system would be simple and efficient.
Sentence 155: The farmer would be sure of getting at least the support price.
Sentence 156: The people of towns and cities would get the benefit of what is produced.
Sentence 157: I have heard this system attacked on the ground that it would cost too much.
Sentence 158: Most of the fantastic estimates of the cost you hear are made by those who don't understand how it would actually work.
Sentence 159: When you study the facts, you will see that this plan should cost no more, and may well cost less, than the present system.
Sentence 160: And it would have the tremendous advantage of using, instead of wasting, perishable products.
Sentence 161: The plain fact is that the production payment plan is the best plan yet proposed for getting an abundant production of perishable crops consumed without knocking the bottom out of the farmer's income.
Sentence 162: It is in the farmer's interest.
Sentence 163: It is also in the consumer's interest.
Sentence 164: I firmly believe that it should be made a part of our national farm program.
Sentence 165: Our third purpose is to encourage the conservation and wise use of our land and water resources.
Sentence 166: A price-support program can do this in two ways.
Sentence 167: The first is by encouraging livestock production.
Sentence 168: If we produce the livestock products that our people want, we shall need to keep more land in grass and hay.
Sentence 169: And that is one of the major things we need to do in order to conserve our soil.
Sentence 170: Nebraska, Missouri, Iowa, and Kansas have a right to land from the lower counties in Louisiana because they have been washing away.
Sentence 171: The second way is to make soil conservation practices a requirement for anyone who wants the benefit of price support.
Sentence 172: The whole Nation has an interest in soil conservation and benefits by it, just as the whole Nation has an interest in and benefits by a sound price-support program.
Sentence 173: It does not make sense to provide just as much price support for the individual who is deliberately ruining his soil as we provide for the good farmer who is keeping his land productive for future generations.
Sentence 174: The need for soil conservation is one of the most important challenges confronting us.
Sentence 175: Our price-support program can, and should, help us meet that challenge.
Sentence 176: The fourth purpose of our recommendations is to give the most support where it is most needed--that is, to the family-size farm.
Sentence 177: The present program channels too much of its benefits to the largest farms.
Sentence 178: Of course, we must not ignore the welfare of the large farms, which contribute so importantly to agricultural production and income.
Sentence 179: But it is only sensible, where public funds are involved, to provide a higher degree of protection for the family farm, which is so fundamental to our democratic society.
Sentence 180: These are the four major purposes of the recommendations this administration has made for improving the farm-support program.
Sentence 181: They are designed to contribute to a stable and prosperous agriculture as part of a strong Nation.
Sentence 182: They will encourage a sustained, realistic abundance of farm production as the basis of rising living standards for all our people.
Sentence 183: They are an expression of our faith that we can all go forward together toward well-being and abundance--farmers and city folk--the people of the United States together with free people of the world.
Sentence 184: That is the only way to assure peace and prosperity for ourselves, and for the world.
Sentence 185: Now, my friends, that is a fine program that will work, and I want you to perform it.
Sentence 186: I want to thank you so much for staying with me.
Sentence 187: I never, never in my life anticipated that there would be a single person left here on the grounds when I got through reading.
