Sentence 1: 1950 Address Fargo North Dakota

Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen:
I am glad to be here in Fargo this evening.
Sentence 2: I don't think I have seen such a crowd since, I think, 1948.
Sentence 3: I have watched with great concern the reports of the floods which have swept through the Red River Valley, and other valleys nearby.
Sentence 4: I understand that in some places these have been the worst floods since 1899.
Sentence 5: Floods like these are not just local affairs.
Sentence 6: They concern the whole Nation.
Sentence 7: I am glad that I have been able to allocate $400,000 from the small amount--and I emphasize that "small amount"--of emergency funds at my disposal to aid in relieving the distress in North Dakota and Minnesota.
Sentence 8: I have asked the Federal agencies to do everything they can do to help.
Sentence 9: I know they have been cooperating with your local and State officials, and private organizations such as the Red Cross, to hold down flood damage and relieve suffering.
Sentence 10: But I know, just as you do, that no relief program can fully repair the damage caused by these great floods.
Sentence 11: Nothing can bring back crops lost, or cattle drowned, or topsoil carried away, or homes destroyed.
Sentence 12: Relief after floods is not good enough.
Sentence 13: We have got to prevent floods.
Sentence 14: We must control the waters from the point where they originate all the way to the mouths of the great rivers.
Sentence 15: To do this we must hold more water in and on the land.
Sentence 16: We must build check dams on the small streams.
Sentence 17: We must construct large dams and levees on the rivers.
Sentence 18: By doing these things, we will not only prevent disastrous floods.
Sentence 19: We will make water serve our purposes in agriculture, navigation, recreation, and the production of power.
Sentence 20: You folks here in Fargo know how important this work is.
Sentence 21: The Baldhill Dam, on the Sheyenne River west of here, has been put into emergency operation to help out in this flood.
Sentence 22: And it has helped.
Sentence 23: But Baldhill Dam is only one step toward the full control of the water in this valley, and in all the other great valleys of our country.
Sentence 24: Flood control in all these great valleys must be our goal.
Sentence 25: This will take a good many years to accomplish.
Sentence 26: It will take great effort.
Sentence 27: It will take a lot of money.
Sentence 28: More than all these, it will take the conviction that the time, the effort, and the money are well spent.
Sentence 29: I believe that money spent this way, to conserve and make better use of our natural resources, is money soundly invested in the future welfare and prosperity of this great Nation.
Sentence 30: Unfortunately, too many people still can't see this plain, obvious fact.
Sentence 31: Some people still say, "Yes, it's a fine idea, but it would cost too much.
Sentence 32: "
I wish those people could see the floods in the Red River Valley today.
Sentence 33: Their false ideas of economy would get a rude shock.
Sentence 34: They would find that it costs the country more not to act than it costs to act.
Sentence 35: This whole job of trying to prevent disastrous floods, by controlling our waters for useful purposes, is a lot like what we're doing to bring about world peace.
Sentence 36: Floods are natural disasters, which can be prevented.
Sentence 37: Wars are manmade disasters, but they can be prevented, too.
Sentence 38: The job of preventing another war is, of course, much more difficult than the job of preventing floods.
Sentence 39: But the two jobs are alike in requiring many years, tremendous effort, and a lot of money.
Sentence 40: The people who say, "Yes, but it costs too much," complain about the cost of our Armed Forces, and the Marshall plan, and all the other work we are doing to build a peaceful world.
Sentence 41: They just complain about the expense of developing our natural resources.
Sentence 42: They never can seem to see beyond the ends of their noses.
Sentence 43: They just won't' understand that it would cost us infinitely more not to act than it costs to act.
Sentence 44: The cost of failing to build a peaceful, prosperous world would be a third great war--with an untold cost not only in dollars but in the lives of our young men and Women.
Sentence 45: Of course, there is much more to building world peace than simply investing part of the Federal Budget.
Sentence 46: Building a peaceful world is a job that everybody has to work at, because everybody is concerned with its success.
Sentence 47: Our churches, our schools, our labor, farm and business groups, our press and radio-everybody in this part of the country and in all this country has a part in this Nation's effort to win the peace.
Sentence 48: You have seen a clear example of that, right here in North Dakota.
Sentence 49: For the past 5 years, the farmers of this area have helped to save millions of people from starvation.
Sentence 50: The wheat that has been going abroad from our farms has enabled millions of people in foreign countries to have the strength to stand up against communism and keep their countries free.
Sentence 51: That has been a real contribution to peace.
Sentence 52: We need to keep wheat flowing abroad.
Sentence 53: The people of other free countries need the wheat, for many of them do not have the agricultural land to produce their own.
Sentence 54: The farmers of North Dakota know from their own personal experience that the United States needs a dependable foreign market for wheat.
Sentence 55: Out of every 10 bushels of wheat we harvest in this country, 3 or 4 bushels are sold abroad.
Sentence 56: We have been working for years to put our wheat trade on a firm basis.
Sentence 57: In April 1948 an International Wheat Agreement, which had been worked out with other countries after years of effort, was sent to the Senate of the 80th Congress.
Sentence 58: Under that agreement, we would have had a dependable market in foreign countries for nearly 200 million bushels of wheat each year for 5 years.
Sentence 59: That was an excellent arrangement.
Sentence 60: It would have been good for every farmer and for every foreign county that needs wheat.
Sentence 61: But the Senate of the 80th Congress did not ratify that wheat agreement, and it died.
Sentence 62: That was a victory for the grain speculators, but a costly defeat for the wheat farmers.
Sentence 63: After an event of some importance in November 1948 we had a new Congress, the 81st Congress.
Sentence 64: We started all over again, and negotiated a new wheat agreement with foreign countries.
Sentence 65: Because of the delay, the terms of the new agreement had to be scaled down.
Sentence 66: But it was still a good arrangement.
Sentence 67: And this time, the Senate of the 81st Congress approved it, in June 1949.
Sentence 68: The wheat agreement is just one example of the kind of forward-looking step that we need to take to build a healthy and expanding system of world trade.
Sentence 69: That is not an easy task.
Sentence 70: But it is a most essential one.
Sentence 71: World trade is of fundamental importance to us in two ways.
Sentence 72: First, it affects the question whether we shall have world peace or world war.
Sentence 73: Second, it affects the question whether we shall have prosperity or depression in our own country.
Sentence 74: It is sometimes hard for us to grasp the importance of foreign trade and relate it to our daily lives.
Sentence 75: I think it helps us to understand if we consider what has happened in our own country.
Sentence 76: Our Nation has become strong and prosperous because the free flow of trade and commerce among all the States has made us the greatest economic unit in the history of the world.
Sentence 77: All the States have prospered because each could draw upon the resources of the others.
Sentence 78: Try to imagine what it would be like if each of the 48 States were a separate country--each with its own system of tariffs, and customs regulations, each with its own separate rules about travel and trade across its borders.
Sentence 79: It is hard for us to imagine such a thing, isn't it?
Sentence 80: But this much is clear.
Sentence 81: If such a situation existed, not one of the 48 States would be as well off as it is today.
Sentence 82: We must apply this lesson to our trading relations with other countries.
Sentence 83: The circumstances are different, of course, and require different treatment.
Sentence 84: But the fundamental principle is the same.
Sentence 85: A vigorous commerce among nations is beneficial to each of them just as it is among our own States.
Sentence 86: It increases their economic well-being, it provides a firm basis for peaceful relations.
Sentence 87: We have in recent history a terrible example of what comes from ignoring these facts.
Sentence 88: During the 1920's, our own country and many other nations of the world were governed by men who did not appreciate the importance of foreign trade.
Sentence 89: Their philosophy was that each nation should protect its own producers by keeping foreign competition out of the country.
Sentence 90: They lost sight of the fact that producers also need markets in foreign countries, that foreign trade is a two-way street.
Sentence 91: They ignored the fact that the whole world suffers when each country tries to make itself a tight little island with high walls all around.
Sentence 92: These shortsighted men met every problem with the method of selfishness.
Sentence 93: When business fell off, they were sure the trouble came from foreign competition.
Sentence 94: The answer, as they saw it, was to keep foreign competition out of the country.
Sentence 95: So they increased tariffs and erected other trade barriers.
Sentence 96: When one country did this, others retaliated.
Sentence 97: Things got worse.
Sentence 98: Anybody who understood the facts about international trade would know they could not help but get worse.
Sentence 99: But the economic isolationists could not see this.
Sentence 100: Their answers always remained the same--"higher tariffs," "more trade barriers"--"keep the foreigners out.
Sentence 101: "
The result was inevitable.
Sentence 102: Economic conditions became worse and worse all over the world.
Sentence 103: Depression came, and grew deeper and deeper.
Sentence 104: More and more men were thrown out of work.
Sentence 105: Hunger and unrest grew.
Sentence 106: Out of these chaotic conditions came the seeds of armed conflict.
Sentence 107: Economic isolationism ran its bitter course to help bring on the Second World War.
Sentence 108: Now, we are faced again with the kind of questions concerning foreign trade policies that followed the First World War.
Sentence 109: Postwar economic adjustments are creating marketing problems in some industries.
Sentence 110: We are beginning to hear the old outcry against imports.
Sentence 111: There are some people whose only answer to these problems is the same as it was 20 or 30 years ago--"keep out foreign competition."
Sentence 112: But I say to you with all the earnestness I possess--"that is the wrong answer.
Sentence 113: "
We must not again start down the road to economic isolationism.
Sentence 114: An increase in world trade is not a matter of one country profiting at the expense of another.
Sentence 115: It is a matter of increasing prosperity for all countries.
Sentence 116: Those who wail so loudly about an increase in United States imports are conspicuously silent about United States exports.
Sentence 117: But anybody with the least bit of commonsense knows that we can't have high exports, over the long run, without high imports.
Sentence 118: We can't sell if we don't buy.
Sentence 119: There isn't a man, no matter what his business is, whether he is a farmer, a laborer, a businessman, or a banker, who doesn't know that if a man can't sell his goods he can't buy any goods.
Sentence 120: And that is just as true of nations as it is of individuals.
Sentence 121: Those who blindly oppose any rise in imports would, if they succeeded, return us to the pattern of trade reprisals and economic anarchy that did so much to create chaos in the world in the 1930's.
Sentence 122: The United States cannot prosper behind closed doors or high tariff walls.
Sentence 123: The United States cannot hope to remain at peace behind such foolish, artificial barriers.
Sentence 124: There are some employers and workers who are sincerely worried about the effect on their own businesses of an increase in imports.
Sentence 125: To them I say: do not be misled by the hysterical clamor of the high tariff lobby.
Sentence 126: With a growing economy, such as ours, an increase in imports is a natural thing.
Sentence 127: The things we import add to our national wealth.
Sentence 128: They add to our standard of living.
Sentence 129: Much of the increase in imports will be in raw materials or manufactured goods that we do not produce here in our own country at all.
Sentence 130: A gradual rise in imports over the next several years may, it is true, cause minor dislocations in our domestic economy--the same kind of dislocations that occur all the time in a dynamic economy, in which new products and new industries are constantly coming into the market.
Sentence 131: What do you reckon happened to the Baldwin Locomotive Works when the diesels came along?
Sentence 132: But you wouldn't ride a Baldwin when you can ride behind a diesel.
Sentence 133: It will not cause more than that, because our system of negotiating reciprocal trade agreements is set up so as to give full consideration to the claims of every domestic industry that fears possible injury from increased imports.
Sentence 134: But we do not, and should not, try to shut out fair competition.
Sentence 135: Fundamentally, there is no more reason to be afraid of fair competition from foreign goods than there is from domestic goods.
Sentence 136: We have found in this country that competition leads to better quality, lower prices, and a higher standard of living.
Sentence 137: If we maintain our dynamic, expanding economy, we need have no fear of a normal increase in imports.
Sentence 138: I don't care where it is located, they can't compete with us if we make up our minds to compete honestly.
Sentence 139: What we do need is to have a majority of the trading nations agree on a basic code of fair trade principles and practices, and agree to settle their trade disputes in a spirit of give and take, and not in a shooting war.
Sentence 140: We have such a code in the Charter of the International Trade Organization.
Sentence 141: Fiftytwo nations signed this charter.
Sentence 142: The International Trade Organization provides a permanent conference table where nations can settle their disputes.
Sentence 143: I hope the Congress will ratify the charter soon, so we can set up the Organization and get on with the job.
Sentence 144: This is the way to move forward to a world in which nations can trade with mutual benefit, in true international cooperation.
Sentence 145: There is no room for economic isolationism in a world torn between freedom and Communist tyranny.
Sentence 146: The United States has no choice but to work with the free nations of the globe in mutual assistance and partnership.
Sentence 147: I believe most Americans know this.
Sentence 148: But there are still a few who are too shortsighted or too selfish to work for the greatest good of the greatest number.
Sentence 149: They are the same old "yes, but . . ."
Sentence 150: people who always stand in the road of progress.
Sentence 151: They no longer say, as they used to say in the 1920's and 1930's, "We are isolationists.
Sentence 152: "
They've given up that line.
Sentence 153: Now they say, "Yes, we believe in international cooperation, but .... "
Sentence 154: And the "but" takes many forms.
Sentence 155: They say, "But . . .
Sentence 156: we cannot afford the cost of the European recovery program.
Sentence 157: "
In other words they say we can't afford to spend 1 1/2 percent of our national income to keep Europe free!
Sentence 158: Or they say, "But . . .
Sentence 159: it's not our business to help other free countries build up their defenses.
Sentence 160: "
In other words, we should invite the Communists to overrun our friends, and leave us alone in the world.
Sentence 161: That makes a lot of sense, doesn't it ?
Sentence 162: Or they say, "Yes, we believe in international cooperation all right, but let's shut off imports from foreign countries.
Sentence 163: "
In other words, they would cut down international trade, force down the living standards of other free peoples--and ours, too-and let the Communists take over!
Sentence 164: The "yes, but" boys underestimate the intelligence of the American people, just as some people did in 1948.
Sentence 165: So far, every effort to return to isolationism has been defeated.
Sentence 166: I am confident that we shall continue to cooperate with other free countries to increase our common welfare.
Sentence 167: I am confident that we shall continue to defeat isolationism.
Sentence 168: This is the way to defeat communism.
Sentence 169: This is the way to build a prosperous world.
Sentence 170: This is the way to achieve freedom and peace.
Sentence 171: And I am just as sure as I stand here that you are going to cooperate with us and try to accomplish that purpose.
Sentence 172: Thank you very much.
