Sentence 1: 1950 Address Cheyenne Wyoming

Governor Crane, Senator O'Mahoney, Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen:
It is a real pleasure to be back here in Cheyenne again.
Sentence 2: When I was here before, it was on a Sunday, and I didn't get a chance to talk with you.
Sentence 3: You gave me a hat, which was a grand hat, and I have still got it, and I still wear it.
Sentence 4: I am more than pleased at the cordial reception which I have received in the great State of Wyoming.
Sentence 5: I appreciate most sincerely the courtesy of your Governor in coming to Casper to meet me, and escorting me up here to the Capitol Building.
Sentence 6: I am most happy, of course, to see Senator Joe O'Mahoney.
Sentence 7: He and I served in the Senate.
Sentence 8: I was there for 10 years, but he was there sometime before and has been there since.
Sentence 9: And I also have two public servants on the staff of the Government of the United States whose homes are in Cheyenne; that is, Dr. Clark who is on the Economic Advisory Board, and Mrs. Ross who makes all the hard money that is circulated in the United States--the Director of the Mint.
Sentence 10: They are both fine people, and both good public servants.
Sentence 11: The last time I was here was in June of 1948.
Sentence 12: You most kindly invited me to come back for your famous "Frontier Days" celebration.
Sentence 13: Someday I'd like to come back to the old "Frontier Days."
Sentence 14: I have been hearing about your celebration for many, many years.
Sentence 15: But my schedule never seems to come out just right for that purpose.
Sentence 16: Nevertheless, the spirit of the frontier is exactly what I want to talk to you about today.
Sentence 17: Some people believe that the American frontier vanished forever when the 48th State came into the Union.
Sentence 18: That is nonsense.
Sentence 19: There are still frontier days.
Sentence 20: This Nation has never stopped growing in wealth and strength.
Sentence 21: It has never stopped finding new horizons of invention, technology, and production.
Sentence 22: It has never stopped blazing trails in finding better ways to use our resources for the well-being of all the people.
Sentence 23: These are today's frontiers.
Sentence 24: There are some people who don't believe there are frontiers yet to be conquered.
Sentence 25: While I was on the Appropriations Committee of the Senate, we were hearing a certain appropriation for the Patent Office, and we ran across a document in the Senate files where the Commissioner of Patents in 1843 had made the statement that the Patent Office should be abolished because there wasn't anything more to be invented.
Sentence 26: The greatest inventions of the age have been patented since then.
Sentence 27: We have got a lot of people like that still alive.
Sentence 28: And today's frontiers call for the same pioneering vision, the same resourcefulness, the same courage that were displayed by the men and women who challenged our geographical frontiers a century ago.
Sentence 29: We proved in war that we have lost none of our strength and courage.
Sentence 30: We are proving again, since the war, that this country still moves boldly toward the future.
Sentence 31: Our peacetime production and our standards of living are moving toward new high levels.
Sentence 32: And we are thinking and planning for steady development and improvement.
Sentence 33: Our watchword is not "holding our own.
Sentence 34: "
Our watchwords are "growth," "expansion," "progress.
Sentence 35: "
This is because there are now, as there have always been, more Americans who look ahead toward the broad horizon than who look backward toward times and places left behind.
Sentence 36: A steady growth in the standards of living of the American people is a goal well within our ability to attain.
Sentence 37: There are some who still look upon the goal of an ever-expanding economy as a pipe dream.
Sentence 38: They still believe in the inevitability of boom-and-bust.
Sentence 39: They are still living among those in the past.
Sentence 40: This country used to have a boom-and-bust economy.
Sentence 41: You can think back a little over 20 years and recall when the last big bust took place.
Sentence 42: But that disaster taught this country a great lesson.
Sentence 43: We learned from that experience that we cannot leave the forces of a huge and complicated economy to take care of themselves.
Sentence 44: We learned then that the people had to use their Government as a means of mobilizing the resources of the whole country to restore the economy and start it moving upward again.
Sentence 45: That same lesson about the role of government still applies today.
Sentence 46: The people, using their Government as an agent, found the means to lick that depression.
Sentence 47: Now we are employing the same means of well-designed Government programs to help strengthen and steadily expand the national economy.
Sentence 48: Earlier today, at Casper, I talked about one kind of governmental activity by which we are creating new frontiers of opportunity every month and every year.
Sentence 49: This is the conservation and full use of our natural resources.
Sentence 50: The opportunities that can be created through the development of our natural resources are immeasurable.
Sentence 51: Our rivers, out soil, our forests, our minerals can form the physical base for a steady expansion of real incomes and living standards, if they are developed and used in the right way.
Sentence 52: This afternoon, I want to talk about another kind of activity through which we can create new frontiers of opportunity.
Sentence 53: This is the program to stimulate and strengthen small business which I recommended to Congress last week.
Sentence 54: Small and independent businesses are important to the growth of the economy.
Sentence 55: They are a constant source of new ideas.
Sentence 56: They are a constant source of new jobs.
Sentence 57: New businesses are also important to the health of the economy.
Sentence 58: In their effort to grow by serving consumers better, they provide the vigorous competition which is the heart of our private enterprise system.
Sentence 59: Every one of you knows somebody who has had a new idea and has built it into a business.
Sentence 60: He has not only made money, but his business has also provided jobs and income for the whole community in which he lives.
Sentence 61: Our country has been made great by the boldness, the daring, and the inventive genius of the men like that.
Sentence 62: Our Nation would suffer a slow decay if men with ideas did not have every opportunity to build new businesses and create new wealth.
Sentence 63: The task of economic expansion requires using all the resources of this great Nation.
Sentence 64: Of the nearly 4 million business concerns in our country, more than 90 percent are usually classified as small.
Sentence 65: These small concerns provide jobs for over 20 million people--roughly half of private, nonfarm employment.
Sentence 66: If we are to have an expanding economy, small business must provide its share of the additional jobs needed.
Sentence 67: In doing so, it will not only create new payrolls for workers; it will also enlarge markets generally for other businesses and for farmers.
Sentence 68: We need big business in this country as well as small business, of course.
Sentence 69: We all benefit from the tremendous output at low cost of large, efficient enterprises.
Sentence 70: But the stimulus of new and vigorous competitors is necessary to keep the old enterprises efficient, and to bring the greatest benefit to consumers and to the public.
Sentence 71: Since the passage of the Sherman Antitrust Act 60 years ago, we have sought to keep monopoly from stifling the growth of new business.
Sentence 72: The effectiveness of the antitrust laws has varied over the years with changes in our national administration.
Sentence 73: Right now, the antitrust laws are being enforced as actively as at any time in our history.
Sentence 74: But at their very best, they are only a limited and a negative approach.
Sentence 75: We will keep on using the antitrust laws and will enforce them vigorously, of course.
Sentence 76: But we must supplement that approach-and we must act soon--with measures which will challenge the power of monopoly, not in the courts but in the marketplace.
Sentence 77: The force of vigorous, effective competition is the best way in the world to prevent monopoly.
Sentence 78: If the man with new ideas has a fair chance to put his product on the market, the buyer will do the rest.
Sentence 79: We must, therefore, take measures to assist the man with new ideas, the small enterpriser, as he starts out to challenge large, powerful, and established competitors.
Sentence 80: The recommendations I have made to the Congress rest upon three simple principles.
Sentence 81: They are that the small businessman needs long-term credit; he needs venture capital; he needs technical assistance.
Sentence 82: These things are needed so that the independent businessman can do more for himself.
Sentence 83: They do not involve Government controls.
Sentence 84: They will cost the Federal Government very little money.
Sentence 85: What they will do is to give the man who wants to be his own boss a better chance to use his own initiative and energy.
Sentence 86: In the field of credit, I propose that we should insure bank loans to small businesses, such as drugstores, filling stations, retail stores.
Sentence 87: The local banks would decide whether or not to make the loan in each case and would share some of the risk.
Sentence 88: But on the major part of the loan the bank would be insured against loss.
Sentence 89: This means that banks will be able to make safely, good loans which they now find too risky.
Sentence 90: Thus, bankers would be able to give greater consideration to the human element in deciding whether or not to help a hometown businessman pull through a tight place.
Sentence 91: They wouldn't have to be quite so hard boiled in demanding gilt-edged collateral.
Sentence 92: You know, a lot of people say, when they find out what kind of collateral they have to put up for a loan at the bank, that if they had that kind of collateral they wouldn't have needed a loan in the first place.
Sentence 93: Now, I don't think bankers act like that just because they want to be mean.
Sentence 94: It's because they have to be careful.
Sentence 95: This insurance would make it possible for them to do what they would like to have been doing all the time.
Sentence 96: This proposal is similar to the insurance that has been provided for years under Title I of the National Housing Act for home improvement loans.
Sentence 97: In that case it has helped the banks, helped the home owners, and the Government has made money from it.
Sentence 98: I think it will work just as well for small business loans.
Sentence 99: Furthermore, I propose that special investment companies be set up to make venture capital and long-term loans available to help small businesses expand when they have proved their ability.
Sentence 100: This would provide a way to pool the savings of people who cannot individually make such investments, but who can, through investment companies, put their savings to work in growing businesses.
Sentence 101: This proposal is generally the same as that incorporated in a bill introduced several months ago by your fellow townsman, and my good friend, Senator Joe O'Mahoney.
Sentence 102: In addition, I propose that the Reconstruction Finance Corporation be given broader authority to handle cases which offer a good chance of success but cannot obtain private financing on reasonable terms.
Sentence 103: These credit proposals are designed to make banks and other private sources of funds more effective in meeting the needs of small and growing businesses.
Sentence 104: They have been proposed by bankers and other private citizens who understand the problems of the small businessman.
Sentence 105: I hope the Congress will soon enact these provisions into law.
Sentence 106: In the field of technical assistance, small businessmen are often at a serious disadvantage.
Sentence 107: They cannot afford to hire specialists and put them on their payrolls to keep up with the latest developments in accounting and management.
Sentence 108: They find it difficult to learn about the latest research developments that affect their businesses.
Sentence 109: Under these circumstances, I propose that the Department of Commerce should expand the work it now does in providing technical and research assistance to small business.
Sentence 110: Thus, we would provide independent businessmen with the same kind of research assistance and skilled advice which we have provided successfully to the farmers for many years.
Sentence 111: At the same time, I propose that we should make the Department of Commerce the central Government agency for small business, as well as other business, just as the Department of Agriculture is the central agency for all farm activities.
Sentence 112: This would mean that the independent businessman could go to one place and obtain the advice and the services that he needs.
Sentence 113: These proposals to help small business .to obtain credit, risk capital, and technical assistance should do much to increase effective competition.
Sentence 114: They should result in more independent enterprises, striving more effectively to provide goods and services that the people need.
Sentence 115: As such, I believe these proposals will contribute to the strength and stable growth of the whole country.
Sentence 116: I suppose it is inevitable that this small business program will meet with determined opposition.
Sentence 117: Those who fear the rise of new competitors will not be slow in imagining danger to their privileged positions.
Sentence 118: They will hide their selfish alarm by attacking what they call "Government interference" with the economic system.
Sentence 119: But the Government is only an instrument in the hands of the people, an instrument we use to help maintain a free, competitive and expanding economy.
Sentence 120: This is the kind of economy that everybody wants.
Sentence 121: More abundance for everyone, without the dismal cycle of boom-and-bust, is something that this Nation can have, and is something the Nation must have.
Sentence 122: To bring it about demands dynamic private enterprise, and it demands also a dynamic Government program, too.
Sentence 123: All of us, working together, can build a strong and prosperous America.
Sentence 124: And keeping our own Nation prosperous and strong is the best assurance that our struggle for prosperity, peace, and freedom in the world will end in victory.
Sentence 125: Thank you very much.
