Sentence 1: 1950 Address Pendleton Oregon

THANK YOU very much.
Sentence 2: It is certainly a pleasure to be here in Pendleton today.
Sentence 3: As I came over that divide on the railroad into this beautiful valley, I wondered what the first man who saw the valley in which Pendleton is situated thought when he saw it.
Sentence 4: I think he must have thought, after that rough passage over the mountains, that he had arrived in Heaven.
Sentence 5: And I am told that is just what it is here.
Sentence 6: I am always happy to visit the Pacific Northwest.
Sentence 7: You know, I have come out here to dedicate Grand Coulee Dam tomorrow.
Sentence 8: On the way out, I have been reporting to the people on some of the problems that our Nation faces, and the progress we are making in solving those problems.
Sentence 9: At different towns and cities, I have talked about world peace, and the farm program, and the development of our natural resources.
Sentence 10: And all these things are tied together, because we need to build a strong United States--strong morally, strong materially-as a basis for our expanding future, and as a basis for world peace.
Sentence 11: Today, I want to talk with you about the economic progress of this great country of ours.
Sentence 12: The growth of the Pacific Northwest is a symbol of the breathtaking economic progress of the United States.
Sentence 13: In one century, you have grown from a few people pushing back the wilderness to thriving States with several millions of people.
Sentence 14: One hundred years ago ox teams were the power for covered wagons.
Sentence 15: Today, you use the energy of the Columbia River--and in a few years more you may be harnessing the tremendous force of the atom for peaceful work.
Sentence 16: These changes did not come about by themselves.
Sentence 17: They are the result of the daring and independent spirit which has always characterized this area.
Sentence 18: The people of the West have always looked ahead.
Sentence 19: In their private actions, and jointly through their local, State, and Federal governments, they have been eager to take bold and imaginative steps toward a better future.
Sentence 20: So long as we hold fast to the frontier spirit of the West, we need never fear the greatest danger that could overtake a nation.
Sentence 21: That is the danger of timidity--of being satisfied with things as they are-of failing to seek ever higher goals.
Sentence 22: Throughout our history, there have been timid people who have been afraid to move forward.
Sentence 23: They opposed all the progressive measures we now take for granted.
Sentence 24: These timid folk once tried to reverse the trend toward free education and political democracy.
Sentence 25: They called that trend towards free education and political democracy "mob rule.
Sentence 26: "
Today the spiritual descendants of this timid group are afraid of bold, progressive measures to achieve an abundant and expanding economy and to distribute its products more fairly among all our people.
Sentence 27: They call these measures "statism" and "socialism.
Sentence 28: "
Sentence 29: The use of the powers of Government to achieve a higher living standard and a fair deal for all the people is not statism and it is not socialism.
Sentence 30: It is a part of the American tradition.
Sentence 31: Every day, we should thank Almighty God that the progressive trends of American life and progress have never been stopped for long.
Sentence 32: We have moved steadily toward a higher conception of human needs and human freedoms, and a greater appreciation of the rights of the average man.
Sentence 33: This progress in American life has not been accomplished without a struggle.
Sentence 34: It cannot be continued without a struggle.
Sentence 35: Repeatedly, the commonsense of a majority of the American people has had to assert itself in the face of the opposition of those who wanted to cling to the past.
Sentence 36: Much of this struggle has dealt with whether our vast country with its wealth of resources should be developed for the benefit of the many or for the benefit of just a few.
Sentence 37: The issue has been whether we should stop trying to provide all our citizens with a good standard of living just because a few people already had more than enough.
Sentence 38: The timid minority do not believe that prosperity for all of our people is a goal that we should fight for.
Sentence 39: That timid minority, many of them are sincere and well-meaning individuals; and that is about the meanest thing you can say about a man, that he means well.
Sentence 40: The trouble has not been always with their hearts; it has been with their eyes.
Sentence 41: Not only were they blind to the prospects of the future; they could not even see backward clearly enough to understand what had already happened.
Sentence 42: Let us look at some of the recent progress of the United States of America.
Sentence 43: Twenty years ago we had entered upon the greatest depression in our history.
Sentence 44: We suffered huge losses for more than 3 long years.
Sentence 45: Then we began vigorous policies of recovery and reform.
Sentence 46: Our recovery was so successful that, by 1939, our total national output of goods and services was actually higher than it was in the last boom year before the great depression.
Sentence 47: Since 1939, we have gone on to make further gains--tremendous gains.
Sentence 48: I am going to give you some of the facts.
Sentence 49: It is awful hard to get these facts, because there are a lot of people that don't want you to know the facts, and that is the reason I am making this tour, so I can tell you what the facts are, and then you can judge for yourselves.
Sentence 50: The calamity howlers don't like to look at the facts because the facts prove how wrong they are when they tell you what a terrible fix the country is in.
Sentence 51: They have been saying over and over again, for years, that the country is being ruined.
Sentence 52: But the facts show that things have been getting better.
Sentence 53: So, what do they do?
Sentence 54: They just ignore the facts.
Sentence 55: Well, we are not going to ignore them.
Sentence 56: We are going to keep the record straight.
Sentence 57: We are going to see what has actually been happening to our economy.
Sentence 58: The best overall measure of a nation's economy is its annual output of goods and services.
Sentence 59: In the United States, the annual output of goods and services has increased in the last 10 years about 60 percent.
Sentence 60: Now, how does this affect the individual citizen?
Sentence 61: You know, a favorite theme of the boys who are always trying to run the country down instead of trying to build it up, is that the Government takes all our gains away by high taxes.
Sentence 62: But the truth is that the annual per capita income of our citizens-after taxes--has increased in the last 10 years by more than 40 percent.
Sentence 63: And some of the people who are doing the loudest yelling are the very people who have got the biggest increases.
Sentence 64: Most of them are better off now than they have ever been before in their lives.
Sentence 65: However--and for this I am very thankful-the increased incomes have not been confined to a favored few.
Sentence 66: Annual wages and salaries of employees increased almost 75 percent in the last 10 years.
Sentence 67: The income of farmowners, although it has fallen off in the last 2 years--and has fallen off more than it should--is still more than 50 percent higher than it was in 1939.
Sentence 68: You would think all this would be enough to convince anybody that the country is doing very well.
Sentence 69: But some people are hard to convince.
Sentence 70: They say this administration looks after labor and looks after the farmer, but it just doesn't give the businessman a chance--that business is being taxed to death.
Sentence 71: Well now, let's examine that.
Sentence 72: The fact is, that the annual income of corporate businesses, after taxes--I say, after taxes--bear that in mind--has increased about 100 percent since 1939.
Sentence 73: That's right, it has increased 100 percent--after taxes.
Sentence 74: I don't think the country is going to Hell.
Sentence 75: It seems to me that free private enterprise is doing all right.
Sentence 76: I am glad it is.
Sentence 77: I want business to be prosperous; and I am going to do all I can to see that it remains prosperous.
Sentence 78: There are some diehard reactionaries who won't give up even when the facts I have mentioned are pointed out to them.
Sentence 79: So they say, "Well, maybe so, but the dollars people have won't buy as much as they used to."
Sentence 80: That argument is just as phony as all the rest of the arguments the pessimists use.
Sentence 81: In all the figures I have given you, allowance has been made for changes in the purchasing power of the dollar.
Sentence 82: The increases I am talking about are real increases, not just dollar increases.
Sentence 83: In dollar terms, the gains would be much larger.
Sentence 84: During the last 5 years, we have successfully met one of the greatest economic tests that can ever confront a nation: we have come through the adjustments following a great war without a depression.
Sentence 85: We have had depressions after most other wars, and a good many people expected that we would have one this time.
Sentence 86: Instead, we have weathered the readjustment period with relatively few hardships.
Sentence 87: And now, we have good prospects for continued prosperity.
Sentence 88: Almost every newspaper you pick up gives new evidence of increasing business activity.
Sentence 89: I saw an advertisement in a Denver paper the other day, advertising for miners to go up to Montana.
Sentence 90: That hasn't happened for quite a while, but it seems that things are on the mend and going up all the time.
Sentence 91: We have avoided the calamity of a postwar depression because our whole economy has been strengthened by a program of action which began 17 years ago--17 years ago, that was March 4, 1933, if you remember.
Sentence 92: This program has been directed toward the humanizing of our economy and toward the humanizing of the Government.
Sentence 93: This program has been marked by such measures as bank deposit insurance, regulation of the security markets, old-age and unemployment insurance, minimum wages, slum clearance and low-rent housing, resource development, and protective farm legislation.
Sentence 94: We have had a Government that was-and is--working for the people, and not for the special interests.
Sentence 95: These measures have helped to distribute buying power more widely among the people.
Sentence 96: They have provided larger markets for the increasing products of our factories and our farms.
Sentence 97: They have protected our economy against shock.
Sentence 98: They have provided business with a stronger banking structure and a more flexible credit system.
Sentence 99: They have helped to sustain farm income.
Sentence 100: Now, we haven't had a bank failure for so long that we don't know what one is like; and we don't want to see anymore.
Sentence 101: These results have not been achieved through public action alone.
Sentence 102: In private enterprise as well, employers and workers have placed more emphasis upon the human element.
Sentence 103: They have learned more about how our economy functions.
Sentence 104: They have constantly adopted more enlightened and progressive policies.
Sentence 105: There is a great lesson to be learned from what we have accomplished.
Sentence 106: We have learned that it is within our power as a people to make full use of our tremendous resources of farm, factory, and human skill.
Sentence 107: We can use that lesson--and we must use it--to build for the future.
Sentence 108: There are two conflicting schools of thought about the future of our economy, just as there are about its present condition.
Sentence 109: Those who can see nothing but evil in the present situation, can see nothing but gloom for the future.
Sentence 110: They have been saying all along that our programs could not succeed--even though the programs were succeeding, at the very time they were denying it.
Sentence 111: Now they are saying the same old thing--that the country is going bankrupt, that depression lies ahead, that the only thing to do is to pull in our belts and save what we can from the wreckage.
Sentence 112: I don't agree with them.
Sentence 113: As I have said time and again, I am a fundamental optimist.
Sentence 114: I believe this country never will go back.
Sentence 115: I think it is always going forward.
Sentence 116: I believe that we know more now than ever before about how to keep our economy strong and prosperous.
Sentence 117: I believe that we can continue to rely on the programs that have served so well for the last 17 years-use them and improve them.
Sentence 118: I face the future with confidence that our Nation will continue to grow in freedom and in material and moral strength.
Sentence 119: I am sure that the people of Oregon and all the Pacific Northwest share that confidence.
Sentence 120: It is the character of those of you who live in this region to dream big dreams and plan big plans.
Sentence 121: You will not join with the little men who throw up their hands and cry, "It can't be done" when we set up our goals for future prosperity.
Sentence 122: I want to tell you about some of those goals--and I assure you that there is nothing fantastic about them.
Sentence 123: They are merely based upon the belief that we can improve as rapidly in the future as we have in the past.
Sentence 124: That's the optimist again.
Sentence 125: I am sure we can do that well and even better if we follow wise policies that are for the benefit of all the people and not for just a special few.
Sentence 126: Here are some of the things we can do.
Sentence 127: In the next 10 years we can reach toward higher standards of living for everybody in the country.
Sentence 128: We can lift our annual output of goods and services to more than $350 billion by 1960--one-third increase within 10 years.
Sentence 129: And I am talking about real output, measured in dollars of today's purchasing power.
Sentence 130: We can increase real wage and salary incomes, and farm incomes, as our economy grows.
Sentence 131: We can increase the profits of business, not through higher prices or higher profit margins, but through increased volume in a growing economy.
Sentence 132: I have said before, and I repeat, that by 1960 we can and should achieve a far better standard of living for every industrious family in the city and on the farm.
Sentence 133: Now, I want to tell you about some of the things we must do to achieve those goals.
Sentence 134: First, the efficiency and capacity of our industries must be increased.
Sentence 135: Despite the large investments which industry has made since the war, there is urgent need for further investment and improvement, to meet expanding markets and to take advantage of the rapid gains in technology.
Sentence 136: This is a job for private owners and managers--in manufacturing, in power, in transportation, in many other industries.
Sentence 137: It is also a job in which the Government must participate--through resource development, sound tax policies, housing and small business programs, and in many other ways.
Sentence 138: Second, purchasing power must be expanded to develop and maintain markets for our increased production of goods.
Sentence 139: The final market for all products is the ultimate consumer.
Sentence 140: Our economy cannot expand as fast as it should as long as we have a large number of families with substandard incomes.
Sentence 141: One out of four American families now has an income of less than $2,000 a year.
Sentence 142: Our goal over the next decade should be to lift every hard-working American family to an income of $4,000 a year--not a mere dollar increase, but an increase in the real standard of living.
Sentence 143: We have the resources to do this by balanced national growth.
Sentence 144: Raising the standards of our poorest families will not be at the expense of anybody else.
Sentence 145: We will all benefit by doing it, for the incomes of the rest of us will rise at the same time.
Sentence 146: Third, we must maintain a sound balance in the programs of our Government, faced as it is with huge and unavoidable responsibilities.
Sentence 147: Most people realize, now, that more than 70 percent of the Federal budget is required to pay for past wars and our work to prevent another war.
Sentence 148: However, they often fail to realize just how vital the other 30 percent is to our welfare and progress.
Sentence 149: The costs of sound programs to improve the Nation's health and education, to stabilize agriculture, to develop resources, are sensible investments in a better future.
Sentence 150: I want to balance the budget of the Federal Government, just as much as anybody else does.
Sentence 151: I would like to see taxes reduced.
Sentence 152: We will do both of these things just as soon as we safely can--and not sooner.
Sentence 153: Nobody can do it any sooner than that.
Sentence 154: We must continue to strive for every true economy in national affairs.
Sentence 155: But I will not join in slashing Government expenses at the cost of our national security and our national progress.
Sentence 156: Fourth, we must continue to improve our economic relations with the rest of the world.
Sentence 157: We must develop a larger flow of international trade and international investment, on a sound basis.
Sentence 158: This will result in larger markets for ourselves, and larger markets for other free countries.
Sentence 159: Just as our Nation has grown through enlarged production and trade, from which all sections of the country have benefited, so the expansion of world production and trade can strengthen all free countries.
Sentence 160: This is an essential step toward world peace.
Sentence 161: We must not be turned aside or slowed down in our efforts to help the other free nations get back on their feet by those who would retreat into isolationism in order to save a few dollars.
Sentence 162: We would pay for that folly many times over.
Sentence 163: It would greatly increase the chances of a third world war.
Sentence 164: As long as I am President of the United States, we are not going to put dollars above world peace.
Sentence 165: The things that I have been talking to you about--the growth of our economy and the policies needed to make that growth possible--have a very definite meaning for you folks here in Pendleton, as they do for people all over the country.
Sentence 166: They are not just abstract theories.
Sentence 167: They are matters that will have a very important effect on your daily lives.
Sentence 168: Your wheat and livestock growers cannot prosper without good incomes and high consumption in the rest of the country, and in other countries too.
Sentence 169: The same thing is true of the Columbia River fisheries.
Sentence 170: Oregon's lumber industry will have good times only if our Nation builds the houses our people need.
Sentence 171: And it works the other way, too.
Sentence 172: The Nation needs the products of your agriculture, your forests, and your fisheries.
Sentence 173: The whole country becomes stronger when Oregon and the Northwest grow and prosper.
Sentence 174: We are a Nation that advances by cooperation and mutual benefit.
Sentence 175: We do not want any State, or any group, to grow at the expense of another.
Sentence 176: Our strength--and the strength of free men--is in a society that works to bring better living to all the people.
Sentence 177: We have demonstrated in our country that we can all move forward together.
Sentence 178: I believe profoundly that this forward movement is going to continue.
Sentence 179: I believe that ultimately it will extend to the farthermost corners of the earth, and that, with the United States as a shining example, we shall succeed in bringing greater welfare and freedom to all mankind the world over.
Sentence 180: Thank you.
